
**Cultural imperialism** comprises the
[cultural](/wiki/Culture "Culture") aspects of
[imperialism](/wiki/Imperialism "Imperialism"). Imperialism here refers
to the creation and maintenance of unequal relationships between
[civilizations](/wiki/Civilization "Civilization"), favoring the more
powerful civilization. Thus, cultural imperialism is the practice of
promoting and imposing a culture, usually that of a politically powerful
[nation](/wiki/Nation "Nation"), over a less powerful society; in other
words, the [cultural
hegemony](/wiki/Cultural_hegemony "Cultural hegemony") of
[industrialized](/wiki/Industrialisation "Industrialisation") or
[economically influential
countries](/wiki/Developed_country "Developed country") which determine
general cultural values and standardize civilizations throughout the
world. The term is employed especially in the fields of history,
[cultural studies](/wiki/Cultural_studies "Cultural studies"), and
[postcolonial
theory](/wiki/Postcolonial_theory "Postcolonial theory"){.mw-redirect}.
It is usually used in a pejorative sense, often in conjunction with
calls to reject such influence. Cultural imperialism can take various
forms, such as an attitude, a formal policy, or military action, insofar
as it reinforces cultural hegemony.

::: {#toc .toc}
::: {.toctitle lang="en" dir="ltr"}
Contents
--------

[]{.toctogglespan}
:::

-   [[1]{.tocnumber} [Background and
    definitions]{.toctext}](#Background_and_definitions)
-   [[2]{.tocnumber} [Theoretical
    foundations]{.toctext}](#Theoretical_foundations)
    -   [[2.1]{.tocnumber} [Michel
        Foucault]{.toctext}](#Michel_Foucault)
    -   [[2.2]{.tocnumber} [Edward Saïd]{.toctext}](#Edward_Saïd)
    -   [[2.3]{.tocnumber} [Gayatri Chakravorty
        Spivak]{.toctext}](#Gayatri_Chakravorty_Spivak)
-   [[3]{.tocnumber} [Contemporary ideas and
    debate]{.toctext}](#Contemporary_ideas_and_debate)
    -   [[3.1]{.tocnumber} [Cultural
        diversity]{.toctext}](#Cultural_diversity)
    -   [[3.2]{.tocnumber} [Ideas relating to African
        colonization]{.toctext}](#Ideas_relating_to_African_colonization)
    -   [[3.3]{.tocnumber} [Ties to
        neoliberalism]{.toctext}](#Ties_to_neoliberalism)
    -   [[3.4]{.tocnumber} [Ties to development
        studies]{.toctext}](#Ties_to_development_studies)
    -   [[3.5]{.tocnumber} [Ties to media effects
        studies]{.toctext}](#Ties_to_media_effects_studies)
    -   [[3.6]{.tocnumber} [Criticisms of \"cultural imperialism
        theory\"]{.toctext}](#Criticisms_of_%22cultural_imperialism_theory%22)
    -   [[3.7]{.tocnumber} [Rothkopf on dealing with cultural
        dominance]{.toctext}](#Rothkopf_on_dealing_with_cultural_dominance)
-   [[4]{.tocnumber} [In history]{.toctext}](#In_history)
    -   [[4.1]{.tocnumber} [Ancient Rome]{.toctext}](#Ancient_Rome)
    -   [[4.2]{.tocnumber} [British Empire]{.toctext}](#British_Empire)
    -   [[4.3]{.tocnumber} [Other pre-Second World War
        examples]{.toctext}](#Other_pre-Second_World_War_examples)
    -   [[4.4]{.tocnumber} [Nazi
        colonialism]{.toctext}](#Nazi_colonialism)
    -   [[4.5]{.tocnumber}
        [Americanization]{.toctext}](#Americanization)
-   [[5]{.tocnumber} [See also]{.toctext}](#See_also)
-   [[6]{.tocnumber} [Notes]{.toctext}](#Notes)
-   [[7]{.tocnumber} [References]{.toctext}](#References)
-   [[8]{.tocnumber} [External links]{.toctext}](#External_links)
:::

[Background and definitions]{#Background_and_definitions .mw-headline}[[\[]{.mw-editsection-bracket}[edit](/w/index.php?title=Cultural_imperialism&action=edit&section=1 "Edit section: Background and definitions")[\]]{.mw-editsection-bracket}]{.mw-editsection}
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Although the *[Oxford English
Dictionary](/wiki/Oxford_English_Dictionary "Oxford English Dictionary")*
has a 1921 reference to the \"cultural imperialism of the
Russians\",^[\[1\]](#cite_note-1)^ John Tomlinson, in his book on the
subject, writes that the term emerged in the
1960s^[\[2\]](#cite_note-2)^ and has been a focus of research since at
least the 1970s.^[\[3\]](#cite_note-3)^ Terms such as \"[media
imperialism](/wiki/Media_imperialism "Media imperialism")\",
\"structural imperialism\", \"cultural dependency and domination\",
\"cultural synchronization\", \"[electronic
colonialism](/wiki/Electronic_colonialism "Electronic colonialism")\",
\"ideological imperialism\", and \"[economic
imperialism](/wiki/Economic_imperialism "Economic imperialism"){.mw-redirect}\"
have all been used to describe the same basic notion of cultural
imperialism.^[\[4\]](#cite_note-White-4)^

Various academics give various definitions of the term. American [media
critic](/wiki/Media_critic "Media critic"){.mw-redirect} [Herbert
Schiller](/wiki/Herbert_Schiller "Herbert Schiller") wrote: \"The
concept of cultural imperialism today \[1975\] best describes the sum of
the processes by which a society is brought into the modern world system
and how its dominating stratum is attracted, pressured, forced, and
sometimes bribed into shaping social institutions to correspond to, or
even promote, the values and structures of the dominating centre of the
system. The public media are the foremost example of operating
enterprises that are used in the penetrative process. For penetration on
a significant scale the media themselves must be captured by the
dominating/penetrating power. This occurs largely through the
commercialization of broadcasting.\"^[\[5\]](#cite_note-Schiller_76-5)^

[Tom
McPhail](/w/index.php?title=Tom_McPhail&action=edit&redlink=1 "Tom McPhail (page does not exist)"){.new}
defined \"Electronic colonialism as the dependency relationship
established by the importation of communication hardware,
foreign-produced software, along with engineers, technicians, and
related information protocols, that vicariously establish a set of
foreign norms, values, and expectations which, in varying degrees, may
alter the domestic cultures and socialization
processes.\"^[\[6\]](#cite_note-McPhail-6)^ Sui-Nam Lee observed that
\"communication imperialism can be defined as the process in which the
ownership and control over the hardware and software of mass media as
well as other major forms of communication in one country are singly or
together subjugated to the domination of another country with
deleterious effects on the indigenous values, norms and
culture.\"^[\[7\]](#cite_note-Lee-7)^ Ogan saw \"media imperialism often
described as a process whereby the United States and Western Europe
produce most of the media products, make the first profits from domestic
sales, and then market the products in Third World countries at costs
considerably lower than those the countries would have to bear to
produce similar products at home.\"^[\[8\]](#cite_note-Ogan-8)^

Downing and Sreberny-Mohammadi state: \"Imperialism is the conquest and
control of one country by a more powerful one. Cultural imperialism
signifies the dimensions of the process that go beyond economic
exploitation or military force. In the history of
[colonialism](/wiki/Colonialism "Colonialism"), (i.e., the form of
imperialism in which the government of the colony is run directly by
foreigners), the educational and media systems of many Third World
countries have been set up as replicas of those in Britain, France, or
the United States and carry their values. Western advertising has made
further inroads, as have architectural and fashion styles. Subtly but
powerfully, the message has often been insinuated that Western cultures
are superior to the cultures of the Third
World.\"^[\[9\]](#cite_note-9)^ Needless to say, all these authors agree
that cultural imperialism promotes the interests of certain circles
within the imperial powers, often to the detriment of the target
societies.

The issue of cultural imperialism emerged largely from [communication
studies](/wiki/Communication_studies "Communication studies").^[\[10\]](#cite_note-Salwen-10)^
However, cultural imperialism has been used as a framework by scholars
to explain phenomena in the areas of [international
relations](/wiki/International_relations "International relations"),
[anthropology](/wiki/Anthropology "Anthropology"), education, science,
history, literature, and sports.^[\[4\]](#cite_note-White-4)^

[Theoretical foundations]{#Theoretical_foundations .mw-headline}[[\[]{.mw-editsection-bracket}[edit](/w/index.php?title=Cultural_imperialism&action=edit&section=2 "Edit section: Theoretical foundations")[\]]{.mw-editsection-bracket}]{.mw-editsection}
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Many of today\'s academics that employ the term, *cultural imperialism,*
are heavily informed by the work of
[Foucault](/wiki/Michel_Foucault "Michel Foucault"),
[Derrida](/wiki/Jacques_Derrida "Jacques Derrida"),
[Said](/wiki/Edward_Said "Edward Said"), and other
[poststructuralist](/wiki/Post-structuralism "Post-structuralism") and
postcolonialist theorists.^[\[4\]](#cite_note-White-4)^ Within the realm
of postcolonial discourse, *cultural imperialism* can be seen as the
cultural legacy of colonialism, or forms of social action contributing
to the continuation of Western [hegemony](/wiki/Hegemony "Hegemony"). To
some outside of the realm of this discourse, the term is critiqued as
being unclear, unfocused, and/or contradictory in
nature.^[\[4\]](#cite_note-White-4)^

### [Michel Foucault]{#Michel_Foucault .mw-headline}[[\[]{.mw-editsection-bracket}[edit](/w/index.php?title=Cultural_imperialism&action=edit&section=3 "Edit section: Michel Foucault")[\]]{.mw-editsection-bracket}]{.mw-editsection}

The work of French philosopher and [social
theorist](/wiki/Social_theorist "Social theorist"){.mw-redirect} [Michel
Foucault](/wiki/Michel_Foucault "Michel Foucault") has heavily
influenced use of the term *cultural imperialism,* particularly his
philosophical interpretation of
[power](/wiki/Power_(philosophy) "Power (philosophy)"){.mw-redirect} and
his concept of
[governmentality](/wiki/Governmentality "Governmentality").

Following an interpretation of power similar to that of
[Machiavelli](/wiki/Niccol%C3%B2_Machiavelli "Niccolò Machiavelli"),
Foucault defines power as immaterial, as a \"certain type of relation
between individuals\" that has to do with complex strategic social
positions that relate to the subject\'s ability to control its
environment and influence those around itself.^[\[11\]](#cite_note-11)^
According to Foucault, power is intimately tied with his conception of
[truth](/wiki/Truth "Truth"). \"Truth\", as he defines it, is a \"system
of ordered procedures for the production, regulation, distribution,
circulation, and operation of statements\" which has a \"circular
relation\" with systems of power.^[\[12\]](#cite_note-12)^ Therefore,
inherent in systems of power, is always \"truth\", which is culturally
specific, inseparable from [ideology](/wiki/Ideology "Ideology") which
often coincides with various forms of
[hegemony](/wiki/Hegemony "Hegemony"). *Cultural imperialism* may be an
example of this.

Foucault\'s interpretation of governance is also very important in
constructing theories of transnational power structure. In his lectures
at the [Collège de
France](/wiki/Coll%C3%A8ge_de_France "Collège de France"), Foucault
often defines governmentality as the broad art of \"governing\", which
goes beyond the traditional conception of governance in terms of state
mandates, and into other realms such as governing \"a household, souls,
children, a province, a convent, a religious order, a
family\".^[\[13\]](#cite_note-13)^ This relates directly back to
Machiavelli\'s [The Prince](/wiki/The_Prince "The Prince"), and
Foucault\'s aforementioned conceptions of [truth](/wiki/Truth "Truth")
and
[power](/wiki/Power_(philosophy) "Power (philosophy)"){.mw-redirect}.
(i.e. various [subjectivities](/wiki/Subjectivity "Subjectivity") are
created through power relations that are culturally specific, which lead
to various forms of culturally specific governmentality such as
[neoliberal](/wiki/Neoliberal "Neoliberal"){.mw-redirect}
governmentality.)

### []{#Edward_Sa.C3.AFd}[Edward Saïd]{#Edward_Saïd .mw-headline}[[\[]{.mw-editsection-bracket}[edit](/w/index.php?title=Cultural_imperialism&action=edit&section=4 "Edit section: Edward Saïd")[\]]{.mw-editsection-bracket}]{.mw-editsection}

Informed by the works of [Noam
Chomsky](/wiki/Noam_Chomsky "Noam Chomsky"), Foucault, and [Antonio
Gramsci](/wiki/Antonio_Gramsci "Antonio Gramsci"), Edward Saïd is a
founding figure of postcolonialism, established with the book
*[Orientalism](/wiki/Orientalism_(book) "Orientalism (book)")* (1978), a
[humanist](/wiki/Humanism "Humanism") critique of [The
Enlightenment](/wiki/Age_of_Enlightenment "Age of Enlightenment"), which
criticizes Western knowledge of \"The East\"---specifically the English
and the French
[constructions](/wiki/Social_construct "Social construct"){.mw-redirect}
of what is and what is not
\"Oriental\".^[\[14\]](#cite_note-14)[\[15\]](#cite_note-15)[\[16\]](#cite_note-Orientalism-16)^
Whereby said \"knowledge\" then led to cultural tendencies towards a
[binary opposition](/wiki/Binary_opposition "Binary opposition") of the
Orient vs. the Occident, wherein one concept is defined in opposition to
the other concept, and from which they emerge as of unequal
value.^[\[16\]](#cite_note-Orientalism-16)^ In *[Culture and
Imperialism](/wiki/Culture_and_Imperialism "Culture and Imperialism")*
(1993), the sequel to *Orientalism*, Saïd proposes that, despite the
formal end of the "age of empire" after the [Second World
War](/wiki/World_War_II "World War II") (1939--45), colonial imperialism
left a cultural legacy to the (previously) colonized peoples, which
remains in their contemporary civilizations; and that said *cultural
imperialism* is very influential in the international systems of
[power](/wiki/Power_(social_and_political) "Power (social and political)").^[\[17\]](#cite_note-17)^

### [Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak]{#Gayatri_Chakravorty_Spivak .mw-headline}[[\[]{.mw-editsection-bracket}[edit](/w/index.php?title=Cultural_imperialism&action=edit&section=5 "Edit section: Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak")[\]]{.mw-editsection-bracket}]{.mw-editsection}

A self-described \"practical
Marxist-feminist-deconstructionist\"^[\[18\]](#cite_note-18)^ [Gayatri
Chakravorty
Spivak](/wiki/Gayatri_Chakravorty_Spivak "Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak")
has published a number of works challenging the \"legacy of
colonialism\" including *A Critique of Postcolonial Reason: Towards a
History of the Vanishing Present* (1999), *Other Asias* (2005), and
\"Can the Subaltern Speak?\" (1988).^[\[19\]](#cite_note-speak-19)^

In \"Can the Subaltern Speak?\" Spivak critiques common representations
in the West of the [Sati](/wiki/Sati_(practice) "Sati (practice)"), as
being controlled by authors other than the participants (specifically
English colonizers and Hindu leaders). Because of this, Spivak argues
that the
[subaltern](/wiki/Subaltern_(postcolonialism) "Subaltern (postcolonialism)"),
referring to the communities that participate in the Sati, are not able
to represent themselves through their own voice. Spivak says that
cultural imperialism has the power to disqualify or erase the knowledge
and mode of education of certain populations that are low on the social
hierarchy.^[\[19\]](#cite_note-speak-19)^

Throughout \"Can the Subaltern Speak?\", Spivak cites the works of Karl
Marx, Michel Foucault, Walter Benjamin, Louis Althusser, Jacques
Derrida, and Edward Said, among others.

In *A critique of Postcolonial Reason*, Spivak argues that Western
philosophy has a history of not only exclusion of the subaltern from
discourse, but also does not allow them to occupy the space of a fully
human subject.

[Contemporary ideas and debate]{#Contemporary_ideas_and_debate .mw-headline}[[\[]{.mw-editsection-bracket}[edit](/w/index.php?title=Cultural_imperialism&action=edit&section=6 "Edit section: Contemporary ideas and debate")[\]]{.mw-editsection-bracket}]{.mw-editsection}
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Cultural imperialism* can refer to either the forced acculturation of a
subject population, or to the voluntary embracing of a foreign culture
by individuals who do so of their own free will. Since these are two
very different referents, the validity of the term has been called into
question.

Cultural influence can be seen by the \"receiving\" culture as either a
threat to or an enrichment of its [cultural
identity](/wiki/Cultural_identity "Cultural identity"). It seems
therefore useful to distinguish between cultural imperialism as an
(active or passive) attitude of superiority, and the position of a
culture or group that seeks to complement its own cultural production,
considered partly deficient, with imported products.

The imported products or services can themselves represent, or be
associated with, certain values (such as
[consumerism](/wiki/Consumerism "Consumerism")). According to one
argument, the \"receiving\" [culture](/wiki/Culture "Culture") does not
necessarily perceive this link, but instead absorbs the foreign culture
passively through the use of the foreign goods and services. Due to its
somewhat concealed, but very potent nature, this hypothetical idea is
described by some experts as \"*banal imperialism*.\" For example, it is
argued that while \"American companies are accused of wanting to control
95 percent of the world\'s consumers\", \"cultural imperialism involves
much more than simple consumer goods; it involved the dissemination of
American principles such as freedom and democracy\", a process which
\"may sound appealing\" but which \"masks a frightening truth: many
cultures around the world are disappearing due to the overwhelming
influence of corporate and cultural America\".^[\[20\]](#cite_note-20)^

Some believe that the newly globalised economy of the late 20th and
early 21st century has facilitated this process through the use of new
information technology. This kind of cultural imperialism is derived
from what is called \"[soft power](/wiki/Soft_power "Soft power")\". The
theory of electronic colonialism extends the issue to global cultural
issues and the impact of major multi-media conglomerates, ranging from
[Viacom](/wiki/Viacom "Viacom"),
[Time-Warner](/wiki/Time-Warner "Time-Warner"){.mw-redirect},
[Disney](/wiki/Disney "Disney"){.mw-redirect}, [News
Corp](/wiki/News_Corp "News Corp"), to [Google](/wiki/Google "Google")
and [Microsoft](/wiki/Microsoft "Microsoft") with the focus on the
hegemonic power of these mainly United States-based communication
giants.

### [Cultural diversity]{#Cultural_diversity .mw-headline}[[\[]{.mw-editsection-bracket}[edit](/w/index.php?title=Cultural_imperialism&action=edit&section=7 "Edit section: Cultural diversity")[\]]{.mw-editsection-bracket}]{.mw-editsection}

One of the reasons often given for opposing any form of cultural
imperialism, voluntary or otherwise, is the preservation of [cultural
diversity](/wiki/Cultural_diversity "Cultural diversity"), a goal seen
by some as analogous to the preservation of [ecological
diversity](/wiki/Biodiversity "Biodiversity"). Proponents of this idea
argue either that such diversity is valuable in itself, to preserve
human historical heritage and knowledge, or instrumentally valuable
because it makes available more ways of solving problems and responding
to catastrophes, natural or otherwise.

### [Ideas relating to African colonization]{#Ideas_relating_to_African_colonization .mw-headline}[[\[]{.mw-editsection-bracket}[edit](/w/index.php?title=Cultural_imperialism&action=edit&section=8 "Edit section: Ideas relating to African colonization")[\]]{.mw-editsection-bracket}]{.mw-editsection}

Of all the areas of the world that scholars have claimed to be adversely
affected by imperialism, Africa is probably the most notable. In the
expansive \"age of imperialism\" of the nineteenth century, scholars
have argued that European colonization in Africa has led to the
elimination of many various cultures, worldviews, and
[epistemologies](/wiki/Epistemology "Epistemology"), particularly
through neocolonization of public
education.^[\[21\]](#cite_note-:0-21)[\[22\]](#cite_note-22)[\[23\]](#cite_note-wa-23)^
This, arguably has led to uneven development, and further informal forms
of social control having to do with culture and
imperialism.^[\[24\]](#cite_note-Abdi-24)^ A variety of factors,
scholars argue, lead to the elimination of cultures, worldviews, and
[epistemologies](/wiki/Epistemology "Epistemology"), such as
\"de-linguicization\" (replacing native African languages with European
ones), devaluing [ontologies](/wiki/Ontology "Ontology") that are not
explicitly individualistic,^[\[24\]](#cite_note-Abdi-24)^ and at times
going as far as to not only define Western culture itself as science,
but that non-Western approaches to science, the Arts, indigenous
culture, etc. are not even knowledge.^[\[21\]](#cite_note-:0-21)^ One
scholar, [Ali A. Abdi](/wiki/Ali_A._Abdi "Ali A. Abdi"), claims that
imperialism inherently \"involve\[s\] extensively interactive regimes
and heavy contexts of identity deformation, misrecognition, loss of
self-esteem, and individual and social doubt in self-efficacy.\"(2000:
12)^[\[24\]](#cite_note-Abdi-24)^ Therefore, all imperialism would
always, already be cultural.

### [Ties to neoliberalism]{#Ties_to_neoliberalism .mw-headline}[[\[]{.mw-editsection-bracket}[edit](/w/index.php?title=Cultural_imperialism&action=edit&section=9 "Edit section: Ties to neoliberalism")[\]]{.mw-editsection-bracket}]{.mw-editsection}

[Neoliberalism](/wiki/Neoliberalism "Neoliberalism") is often critiqued
by sociologists, anthropologists, and cultural studies scholars as being
culturally imperialistic. Critics of neoliberalism, at times, claim that
it is the newly predominant form of
imperialism.^[\[24\]](#cite_note-Abdi-24)^ Other Scholars, such as
Elizabeth Dunn and Julia Elyachar have claimed that
[neoliberalism](/wiki/Neoliberalism "Neoliberalism") requires and
creates its own form of
[governmentality](/wiki/Governmentality "Governmentality").^[\[25\]](#cite_note-Dunn-25)[\[26\]](#cite_note-Elyachar-26)^

In Dunn\'s work, *Privatizing Poland*, she argues that the expansion of
the [multinational
corporation](/wiki/Multinational_corporation "Multinational corporation"),
Gerber, into Poland in the 1990s imposed Western, neoliberal
[governmentality](/wiki/Governmentality "Governmentality"),
[ideologies](/wiki/Ideology "Ideology"), and
[epistemologies](/wiki/Epistemology "Epistemology") upon the post-soviet
persons hired.^[\[25\]](#cite_note-Dunn-25)^ Cultural conflicts occurred
most notably the company\'s inherent
[individualistic](/wiki/Individualism "Individualism") policies, such as
promoting competition among workers rather than cooperation, and in its
strong opposition to what the company owners claimed was
[bribery](/wiki/Bribery "Bribery").^[\[25\]](#cite_note-Dunn-25)^

In Elyachar\'s work, *Markets of Dispossession*, she focuses on ways in
which, in [Cairo](/wiki/Cairo "Cairo"),
[NGOs](/wiki/NGO "NGO"){.mw-redirect} along with
[INGOs](/wiki/International_nongovernmental_organization "International nongovernmental organization"){.mw-redirect}
and the state promoted neoliberal
[governmentality](/wiki/Governmentality "Governmentality") through
schemas of economic development that relied upon \"youth
microentrepreneurs.\"^[\[26\]](#cite_note-Elyachar-26)^ Youth
microentrepreneurs would receive small loans to build their own
businesses, similar to the way that
[microfinance](/wiki/Microfinance "Microfinance") supposedly
operates.^[\[26\]](#cite_note-Elyachar-26)^ Elyachar argues though, that
these programs not only were a failure, but that they shifted cultural
opinions of [value (personal and
cultural)](/wiki/Value_(personal_and_cultural) "Value (personal and cultural)"){.mw-redirect}
in a way that favored Western ways of thinking and
being.^[\[26\]](#cite_note-Elyachar-26)^

### [Ties to development studies]{#Ties_to_development_studies .mw-headline}[[\[]{.mw-editsection-bracket}[edit](/w/index.php?title=Cultural_imperialism&action=edit&section=10 "Edit section: Ties to development studies")[\]]{.mw-editsection-bracket}]{.mw-editsection}

Often, methods of promoting development and social justice to are
critiqued as being imperialistic, in a cultural sense. For example,
Chandra Mohanty has critiqued Western
[feminism](/wiki/Feminism "Feminism"), claiming that it has created a
misrepresentation of the \"third world woman\" as being completely
powerless, unable to resist male
dominance.^[\[27\]](#cite_note-Mohanty-27)^ Thus, this leads to the
often critiqued narrative of the \"white man\" saving the \"brown
woman\" from the \"brown man.\" Other, more radical critiques of
[development studies](/wiki/Development_studies "Development studies"),
have to do with the field of study itself. Some scholars even question
the intentions of those developing the field of study, claiming that
efforts to \"develop\" the [Global
South](/wiki/Global_South "Global South") were never about the South
itself. Instead, these efforts, it is argued, were made in order to
advance Western development and reinforce Western
hegemony.^[\[28\]](#cite_note-28)^

### [Ties to media effects studies]{#Ties_to_media_effects_studies .mw-headline}[[\[]{.mw-editsection-bracket}[edit](/w/index.php?title=Cultural_imperialism&action=edit&section=11 "Edit section: Ties to media effects studies")[\]]{.mw-editsection-bracket}]{.mw-editsection}

The core of cultural imperialism thesis is integrated with the
political-economy traditional approach in media effects research.
Critics of cultural imperialism commonly claim that non-Western
cultures, particularly from the Third World, will forsake their
traditional values and lose their cultural identities when they are
solely exposed to Western media. Nonetheless, Michael B. Salwen, in his
book *Critical Studies in Mass Communication*
(1991),^[\[29\]](#cite_note-29)^ claims that cross-consideration and
integration of empirical findings on cultural imperialist influences is
very critical in terms of understanding mass media in the international
sphere. He recognizes both of contradictory contexts on cultural
imperialist impacts. The first context is where cultural imperialism
imposes socio-political disruptions on developing nations. Western media
can distort images of foreign cultures and provoke personal and social
conflicts to developing nations in some cases.^[\[30\]](#cite_note-30)^
Another context is that peoples in developing nations resist to foreign
media and preserve their cultural attitudes. Although he admits that
outward manifestations of Western culture may be adopted, but the
fundamental values and behaviors remain still. Furthermore, positive
effects might occur when male-dominated cultures adopt the "liberation"
of women with exposure to Western media^[\[31\]](#cite_note-31)^ and it
stimulates ample exchange of cultural exchange.^[\[32\]](#cite_note-32)^

### []{#Criticisms_of_.22cultural_imperialism_theory.22}[Criticisms of \"cultural imperialism theory\"]{#Criticisms_of_"cultural_imperialism_theory" .mw-headline}[[\[]{.mw-editsection-bracket}[edit](/w/index.php?title=Cultural_imperialism&action=edit&section=12 "Edit section: Criticisms of "cultural imperialism theory"")[\]]{.mw-editsection-bracket}]{.mw-editsection}

Critics of scholars who discuss cultural imperialism have a number of
critiques. *Cultural imperialism* is a term that is only used in
discussions where [cultural
relativism](/wiki/Cultural_relativism "Cultural relativism") and
[constructivism](/wiki/Constructivist_epistemology "Constructivist epistemology")
are generally taken as true. (One cannot critique promoting Western
values if one believes that said values are absolutely correct.
Similarly, one cannot argue that Western epistemology is unjustly
promoted in non-Western societies if one believes that those
epistemologies are absolutely correct.^[\[4\]](#cite_note-White-4)^)
Therefore, those who disagree with cultural relativism and/or
constructivism may critique the employment of the term, *cultural
imperialism* on those terms.

John Tomlinson provides a critique of cultural imperialism theory and
reveals major problems in the way in which the idea of cultural, as
opposed to economic or political, imperialism is formulated. In his book
*Cultural Imperialism: A Critical Introduction*, he delves into the much
debated "[media
imperialism](/wiki/Media_imperialism "Media imperialism")" theory.
Summarizing research on the Third World's reception of American
television shows, he challenges the cultural imperialism argument,
conveying his doubts about the degree to which US shows in developing
nations actually carry US values and improve the profits of US
companies. Tomlinson suggests that cultural imperialism is growing in
some respects, but local transformation and interpretations of imported
media products propose that cultural diversification is not at an end in
global society.^[\[33\]](#cite_note-33)^ He explains that one of the
fundamental conceptual mistakes of cultural imperialism is to take for
granted that the distribution of cultural goods can be considered as
cultural dominance. He thus supports his argument highly criticizing the
concept that [Americanization](/wiki/Americanization "Americanization")
is occurring through global overflow of American television products. He
points to a myriad of examples of television networks who have managed
to dominate their domestic markets and that domestic programs generally
top the ratings. He also doubts the concept that cultural agents are
passive receivers of information. He states that movement between
cultural/geographical areas always involves translation, mutation,
adaptation, and the creation of hybridity.

Other major critiques are that the term is not defined well, and employs
further terms that are not defined well, and therefore lacks explanatory
power, that *cultural imperialism* is hard to measure, and that the
theory of a legacy of [colonialism](/wiki/Colonialism "Colonialism") is
not always true.^[\[4\]](#cite_note-White-4)^

### [Rothkopf on dealing with cultural dominance]{#Rothkopf_on_dealing_with_cultural_dominance .mw-headline}[[\[]{.mw-editsection-bracket}[edit](/w/index.php?title=Cultural_imperialism&action=edit&section=13 "Edit section: Rothkopf on dealing with cultural dominance")[\]]{.mw-editsection-bracket}]{.mw-editsection}

[David Rothkopf](/wiki/David_Rothkopf "David Rothkopf"), managing
director of [Kissinger
Associates](/wiki/Kissinger_Associates "Kissinger Associates") and an
adjunct professor of [international
affairs](/wiki/International_relations "International relations") at
[Columbia University](/wiki/Columbia_University "Columbia University")
(who also served as a senior [US Commerce
Department](/wiki/US_Commerce_Department "US Commerce Department"){.mw-redirect}
official in the [Clinton
Administration](/wiki/Clinton_Administration "Clinton Administration"){.mw-redirect}),
wrote about cultural imperialism in his provocatively titled *In Praise
of Cultural Imperialism?* in the summer 1997 issue of *[Foreign
Policy](/wiki/Foreign_Policy "Foreign Policy")* magazine. Rothkopf says
that the United States should embrace \"cultural imperialism\" as in its
self-interest. But his definition of cultural imperialism stresses
spreading the values of [tolerance](/wiki/Toleration "Toleration") and
openness to cultural change in order to avoid war and conflict between
cultures as well as expanding accepted technological and legal standards
to provide free traders with enough security to do business with more
countries. Rothkopf\'s definition almost exclusively involves allowing
individuals in other nations to accept or reject foreign cultural
influences. He also mentions, but only in passing, the use of the
[English language](/wiki/English_language "English language") and
consumption of news and popular music and film as cultural dominance
that he supports. Rothkopf additionally makes the point that
[globalization](/wiki/Globalization "Globalization") and the
[Internet](/wiki/Internet "Internet") are accelerating the process of
cultural influence.^[\[34\]](#cite_note-rothkopf-34)^

Culture is sometimes used by the organizers of society---politicians,
theologians, academics, and families---to impose and ensure order, the
rudiments of which change over time as need dictates. One need only look
at the 20th century\'s [genocides](/wiki/Genocide "Genocide"). In each
one, leaders used culture as a political front to fuel the passions of
their armies and other minions and to justify their actions among their
people.

Rothkopf then cites genocide and
[massacres](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/massacre "wiktionary:massacre"){.extiw}
in [Armenia](/wiki/Armenia "Armenia"), Russia, the
[Holocaust](/wiki/The_Holocaust "The Holocaust"),
[Cambodia](/wiki/Cambodia "Cambodia"), [Bosnia and
Herzegovina](/wiki/Bosnia_and_Herzegovina "Bosnia and Herzegovina"),
[Rwanda](/wiki/Rwanda "Rwanda") and [East
Timor](/wiki/East_Timor "East Timor") as examples of culture (in some
cases expressed in the ideology of \"political culture\" or religion)
being misused to justify violence. He also acknowledges that cultural
imperialism in the past has been guilty of forcefully eliminating the
cultures of natives in the Americas and in Africa, or through use of the
[Inquisition](/wiki/Inquisition "Inquisition"), *\"and during the
expansion of virtually every [empire](/wiki/Empire "Empire").\"*.The
most important way to deal with cultural influence in any nation,
according to Rothkopf, is to promote tolerance and allow, or even
promote, cultural diversities that are compatible with tolerance and to
eliminate those cultural differences that cause violent conflict:

Successful multicultural societies, be they nations, federations, or
other conglomerations of closely interrelated states, discern those
aspects of culture that do not threaten union, stability, or prosperity
(such as food, holidays, rituals, and music) and allow them to flourish.
But they counteract or eradicate the more subversive elements of culture
(exclusionary aspects of religion, language, and political/ideological
beliefs). History shows that bridging cultural gaps successfully and
serving as a home to diverse peoples requires certain social structures,
laws, and institutions that transcend culture. Furthermore, the history
of a number of ongoing experiments in
[multiculturalism](/wiki/Multiculturalism "Multiculturalism"), such as
in the European Union, India, South Africa, Canada and the United
States, suggests that workable, if not perfected, integrative models
exist. Each is built on the idea that tolerance is crucial to social
well-being, and each at times has been threatened by both intolerance
and a heightened emphasis on cultural distinctions. The greater public
good warrants eliminating those cultural characteristics that promote
conflict or prevent harmony, even as less-divisive, more personally
observed cultural distinctions are celebrated and
preserved.^[\[35\]](#cite_note-35)^

Cultural dominance can also be seen in the 1930s in Australia where the
Aboriginal Assimilation Policy acted as an attempt to wipe out the
Native Australian people. The British settlers tried to biologically
alter the skin colour of the Australian Aboriginal people through mixed
breeding with white people. The policy also made attempts to forcefully
conform the Aborigines to western ideas of dress and
education.^[\[36\]](#cite_note-36)^

[In history]{#In_history .mw-headline}[[\[]{.mw-editsection-bracket}[edit](/w/index.php?title=Cultural_imperialism&action=edit&section=14 "Edit section: In history")[\]]{.mw-editsection-bracket}]{.mw-editsection}
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Although the term was popularized in the 1960s, and was used by its
original proponents to refer to cultural hegemonies in a post-colonial
world, cultural imperialism has also been used to refer to times further
in the past.

### [Ancient Rome]{#Ancient_Rome .mw-headline}[[\[]{.mw-editsection-bracket}[edit](/w/index.php?title=Cultural_imperialism&action=edit&section=15 "Edit section: Ancient Rome")[\]]{.mw-editsection-bracket}]{.mw-editsection}

The [Roman Empire](/wiki/Roman_Empire "Roman Empire") has been seen as
an early example of cultural imperialism.

Early Rome, in its conquest of Italy, assimilated the people of
[Etruria](/wiki/Etruria "Etruria") by replacing the [Etruscan
language](/wiki/Etruscan_language "Etruscan language") with Latin, which
led to the demise of that language and many aspects of [Etruscan
civilization](/wiki/Etruscan_civilization "Etruscan civilization").^[\[37\]](#cite_note-books.google.co.uk-37)^

Cultural
[Romanization](/wiki/Romanization_(cultural) "Romanization (cultural)")
was imposed on many parts of Rome\'s empire by \"many regions receiving
Roman culture unwillingly, as a form of cultural
imperialism.\"^[\[38\]](#cite_note-38)^ For example, when Greece was
conquered by the Roman armies, Rome set about altering the culture of
Greece to conform with Roman ideals. For instance, the Greek habit of
stripping naked, in public, for exercise, was looked on askance by Roman
writers, who considered the practice to be a cause of the Greeks\'
effeminacy and enslavement.^[\[39\]](#cite_note-39)^ The Roman example
has been linked to modern instances of European imperialism in African
countries, bridging the two instances with Slavoj Zizek\'s discussions
of \'empty signifiers\'^[\[40\]](#cite_note-40)^

The [Pax Romana](/wiki/Pax_Romana "Pax Romana") was secured in the
empire, in part, by the \"forced acculturation of the culturally diverse
populations that Rome had
conquered.\"^[\[37\]](#cite_note-books.google.co.uk-37)^

### [British Empire]{#British_Empire .mw-headline}[[\[]{.mw-editsection-bracket}[edit](/w/index.php?title=Cultural_imperialism&action=edit&section=16 "Edit section: British Empire")[\]]{.mw-editsection-bracket}]{.mw-editsection}

British worldwide expansion in the 18th and 19th centuries was an
economic and political phenomenon. However, \"there was also a strong
social and cultural dimension to it, which [Rudyard
Kipling](/wiki/Rudyard_Kipling "Rudyard Kipling") termed the \'[white
man\'s
burden](/wiki/White_man%27s_burden "White man's burden"){.mw-redirect}\'.\"
One of the ways this was carried out was by religious proselytising, by,
amongst others, the [London Missionary
Society](/wiki/London_Missionary_Society "London Missionary Society"),
which was \"an agent of British cultural
imperialism.\"^[\[41\]](#cite_note-41)^ Another way, was by the
imposition of educational material on the colonies for an \"imperial
curriculum\". Morag Bell writes, \"The promotion of empire through
books, illustrative materials, and educational syllabuses was
widespread, part of an education policy geared to cultural
imperialism\".^[\[42\]](#cite_note-42)^ This was also true of science
and technology in the empire. Douglas M. Peers and Nandini Gooptu note
that \"Most scholars of colonial science in India now prefer to stress
the ways in which science and technology worked in the service of
colonialism, as both a \'tool of empire\' in the practical sense and as
a vehicle for cultural imperialism. In other words, science developed in
India in ways that reflected colonial priorities, tending to benefit
Europeans at the expense of Indians, while remaining dependent on and
subservient to scientific authorities in the colonial
metropolis.\"^[\[43\]](#cite_note-43)^

The analysis of cultural imperialism carried out by Edward Said drew
principally from a study of the [British
Empire](/wiki/British_Empire "British Empire").^[\[44\]](#cite_note-44)^
According to Danilo Raponi, the cultural imperialism of the British in
the 19th century had a much wider effect than only in the British
Empire. He writes, \"To paraphrase Said, I see cultural imperialism as a
complex cultural hegemony of a country, Great Britain, that in the 19th
century had no rivals in terms of its ability to project its power
across the world and to influence the cultural, political and commercial
affairs of most countries. It is the \'cultural hegemony\' of a country
whose power to export the most fundamental ideas and concepts at the
basis of its understanding of \'civilisation\' knew practically no
bounds.\" In this, for example, Raponi includes
Italy.^[\[45\]](#cite_note-45)^

### [Other pre-Second World War examples]{#Other_pre-Second_World_War_examples .mw-headline}[[\[]{.mw-editsection-bracket}[edit](/w/index.php?title=Cultural_imperialism&action=edit&section=17 "Edit section: Other pre-Second World War examples")[\]]{.mw-editsection-bracket}]{.mw-editsection}

The [New Cambridge Modern
History](/wiki/New_Cambridge_Modern_History "New Cambridge Modern History"){.mw-redirect}
writes about the cultural imperialism of [Napoleonic
France](/wiki/Napoleonic_France "Napoleonic France"){.mw-redirect}.
Napoleon used the [Institut de
France](/wiki/Institut_de_France "Institut de France") \"as an
instrument for transmuting French universalism into cultural
imperialism.\" Members of the Institute (who included Napoleon),
descended upon Egypt in 1798. \"Upon arrival they organised themselves
into an Institute of Cairo. The Rosetta Stone is their most famous find.
The science of Egyptology is their legacy.\"^[\[46\]](#cite_note-46)^

After the [First World
War](/wiki/First_World_War "First World War"){.mw-redirect}, Germans
were worried about the extent of French influence in the annexed
[Rhineland](/wiki/Rhineland "Rhineland"), with the French [occupation of
the Ruhr](/wiki/Occupation_of_the_Ruhr "Occupation of the Ruhr") Valley
in 1923. An early use of the term appeared in an essay by Paul Ruhlmann
(as \"Peter Hartmann\") at that date, entitled *French Cultural
Imperialism on the Rhine*.^[\[47\]](#cite_note-47)^

### [Nazi colonialism]{#Nazi_colonialism .mw-headline}[[\[]{.mw-editsection-bracket}[edit](/w/index.php?title=Cultural_imperialism&action=edit&section=18 "Edit section: Nazi colonialism")[\]]{.mw-editsection-bracket}]{.mw-editsection}

*Cultural imperialism* has also been used in connection with the
expansion of German influence under the
[Nazis](/wiki/Nazis "Nazis"){.mw-redirect} in the middle of the
twentieth century. Alan Steinweis and Daniel Rogers note that even
before the Nazis came to power, \"Already in the Weimar Republic, German
academic specialists on eastern Europe had contributed through their
publications and teaching to the legitimization Of German territorial
[revanchism](/wiki/Revanchism "Revanchism") and cultural imperialism.
These scholars operated primarily in the disciplines Of history,
economics, geography, and literature.\"^[\[48\]](#cite_note-48)^

In the area of music, Michael Kater writes that during the WWII German
occupation of France, [Hans Rosbaud](/wiki/Hans_Rosbaud "Hans Rosbaud"),
a German conductor based by the Nazi regime in
[Strasbourg](/wiki/Strasbourg "Strasbourg"), became \"at least
nominally, a servant of Nazi cultural imperialism directed against the
French.\"^[\[49\]](#cite_note-49)^

In Italy during the war, Germany pursued \"a European cultural front
that gravitates around German culture\". The Nazi propaganda minister
[Joseph Goebbels](/wiki/Joseph_Goebbels "Joseph Goebbels") set up the
European Union of Writers, \"one of Goebbels\'s most ambitious projects
for Nazi cultural hegemony. Presumably a means of gathering authors from
Germany, Italy, and the occupied countries to plan the literary life of
the new Europe, the union soon emerged as a vehicle of German cultural
imperialism.\"^[\[50\]](#cite_note-50)^

For other parts of Europe, [Robert
Gerwarth](/wiki/Robert_Gerwarth "Robert Gerwarth"), writing about
cultural imperialism and [Reinhard
Heydrich](/wiki/Reinhard_Heydrich "Reinhard Heydrich"), states that the
\"Nazis\' Germanization project was based on a historically
unprecedented programme of racial stock-taking, theft, expulsion and
murder.\" Also, \"The full integration of the \[Czech\]
[Protectorate](/wiki/Protectorate_of_Bohemia_and_Moravia "Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia")
into this New Order required the complete Germanization of the
Protectorate\'s cultural life and the eradication of indigenous Czech
and Jewish culture.\"^[\[51\]](#cite_note-51)^

The actions by [Nazi Germany](/wiki/Nazi_Germany "Nazi Germany") reflect
on the notion of race and culture playing a significant role in
imperialism. The idea that there is a distinction between the Germans
and the Jews has created the illusion of Germans believing they were
superior to the Jewish inferiors, the notion of us/them and
self/others.^[\[52\]](#cite_note-52)\[*[[relevant?]{title="The material near this tag may contain information that is not relevant to the article's main topic. (July 2015)"}](/wiki/Wikipedia:Writing_better_articles#Stay_on_topic "Wikipedia:Writing better articles")\ [\ --\ [discuss](/wiki/Talk:Cultural_imperialism "Talk:Cultural imperialism")]{.metadata}*\]^

### [Americanization]{#Americanization .mw-headline}[[\[]{.mw-editsection-bracket}[edit](/w/index.php?title=Cultural_imperialism&action=edit&section=19 "Edit section: Americanization")[\]]{.mw-editsection-bracket}]{.mw-editsection}

*See [Americanization](/wiki/Americanization "Americanization") and
[Cocacolonization](/wiki/Cocacolonization "Cocacolonization").*

[See also]{#See_also .mw-headline}[[\[]{.mw-editsection-bracket}[edit](/w/index.php?title=Cultural_imperialism&action=edit&section=20 "Edit section: See also")[\]]{.mw-editsection-bracket}]{.mw-editsection}
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-   [Cocacolonization](/wiki/Cocacolonization "Cocacolonization")
-   [Colonial mentality](/wiki/Colonial_mentality "Colonial mentality")
-   [Cross-culturalism](/wiki/Cross-culturalism "Cross-culturalism"){.mw-redirect}
-   [Cultural
    appropriation](/wiki/Cultural_appropriation "Cultural appropriation")
-   [Cultural
    Cringe](/wiki/Cultural_Cringe "Cultural Cringe"){.mw-redirect}
-   [Cultural genocide](/wiki/Cultural_genocide "Cultural genocide")
-   [Ethnocide](/wiki/Ethnocide "Ethnocide")
-   [Linguistic
    imperialism](/wiki/Linguistic_imperialism "Linguistic imperialism")
-   [Right to exist](/wiki/Right_to_exist "Right to exist")
-   [Scientific
    imperialism](/wiki/Scientific_imperialism "Scientific imperialism")
-   [Transculturation](/wiki/Transculturation "Transculturation")
-   [Westernization](/wiki/Westernization "Westernization")

[Notes]{#Notes .mw-headline}[[\[]{.mw-editsection-bracket}[edit](/w/index.php?title=Cultural_imperialism&action=edit&section=21 "Edit section: Notes")[\]]{.mw-editsection-bracket}]{.mw-editsection}
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

::: {.reflist .columns .references-column-width style="-moz-column-width: 30em; -webkit-column-width: 30em; column-width: 30em; list-style-type: decimal;"}
1.  [[**[\^](#cite_ref-1)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [*Oxford English
    Dictionary*, within \"cultural\"]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-1}
2.  [[**[\^](#cite_ref-2)**]{.mw-cite-backlink}
    [[Tomlinson (1991)](https://books.google.com/books?id=0CFMS0z5-gcC&dq=cultural+imperialism&q=%221960s+and+has%22#v=snippet&q=%221960s%20and%20has%22&f=false){.external
    .text}, p. 2]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-2}
3.  [[**[\^](#cite_ref-3)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Hamm, (2005), p.
    4]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-3}
4.  [[\^ [^***a***^](#cite_ref-White_4-0)
    [^***b***^](#cite_ref-White_4-1) [^***c***^](#cite_ref-White_4-2)
    [^***d***^](#cite_ref-White_4-3) [^***e***^](#cite_ref-White_4-4)
    [^***f***^](#cite_ref-White_4-5)]{.mw-cite-backlink} [White,
    Livingston A. \"Reconsidering Cultural Imperialism Theory\"
    *Transnational Broadcasting Studies* no.6
    Spring/Summer 2001.]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-White-4}
5.  [[**[\^](#cite_ref-Schiller_76_5-0)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Schiller,
    Herbert I. (1976). *Communication and cultural domination*.
    International Arts and Sciences Press, 901 North Broadway, White
    Plains, New York 10603. pp. 9--10.
    [ISBN](/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number "International Standard Book Number") [978-0-87332-079-5](/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0-87332-079-5 "Special:BookSources/978-0-87332-079-5").[[ ]{style="display:none;"}]{.Z3988
    title="ctx_ver=Z39.88-2004&rft_val_fmt=info%3Aofi%2Ffmt%3Akev%3Amtx%3Abook&rft.genre=book&rft.btitle=Communication+and+cultural+domination&rft.pages=9-10&rft.pub=International+Arts+and+Sciences+Press%2C+901+North+Broadway%2C+White+Plains%2C+New+York+10603&rft.date=1976&rft.isbn=978-0-87332-079-5&rft.aulast=Schiller&rft.aufirst=Herbert+I.&rfr_id=info%3Asid%2Fen.wikipedia.org%3ACultural+imperialism"}]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-Schiller_76-5}
6.  [[**[\^](#cite_ref-McPhail_6-0)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [McPhail,
    Thomas L. (1987). *Electronic colonialism: the future of
    international broadcasting and communication*. Volume 126 of Sage
    library of social research. Sage Publications. p. 18.
    [ISBN](/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number "International Standard Book Number") [978-0-8039-2730-8](/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0-8039-2730-8 "Special:BookSources/978-0-8039-2730-8").[[ ]{style="display:none;"}]{.Z3988
    title="ctx_ver=Z39.88-2004&rft_val_fmt=info%3Aofi%2Ffmt%3Akev%3Amtx%3Abook&rft.genre=book&rft.btitle=Electronic+colonialism%3A+the+future+of+international+broadcasting+and+communication&rft.series=Volume+126+of+Sage+library+of+social+research&rft.pages=18&rft.pub=Sage+Publications&rft.date=1987&rft.isbn=978-0-8039-2730-8&rft.aulast=McPhail&rft.aufirst=Thomas+L.&rfr_id=info%3Asid%2Fen.wikipedia.org%3ACultural+imperialism"}]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-McPhail-6}
7.  [[**[\^](#cite_ref-Lee_7-0)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Lee, Siu-Nam Lee
    (1988). \"Communication imperialism and dependency: A conceptual
    clarification\". *International Communication Gazette*. Netherlands:
    Kiuwer Academic Publishers (41):
    74.[[ ]{style="display:none;"}]{.Z3988
    title="ctx_ver=Z39.88-2004&rft_val_fmt=info%3Aofi%2Ffmt%3Akev%3Amtx%3Ajournal&rft.genre=article&rft.jtitle=International+Communication+Gazette&rft.atitle=Communication+imperialism+and+dependency%3A+A+conceptual+clarification&rft.issue=41&rft.pages=74&rft.date=1988&rft.aulast=Lee&rft.aufirst=Siu-Nam+Lee&rfr_id=info%3Asid%2Fen.wikipedia.org%3ACultural+imperialism"}]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-Lee-7}
8.  [[**[\^](#cite_ref-Ogan_8-0)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Ogan, Christine
    (Spring 1988). \"Media Imperialism and the Videocassette Recorder:
    The Case of Turkey\". *Journal of Communication*. **38** (2): 94.
    [doi](/wiki/Digital_object_identifier "Digital object identifier"):[10.1111/j.1460-2466.1988.tb02049.x](//doi.org/10.1111/j.1460-2466.1988.tb02049.x){.external
    .text}.[[ ]{style="display:none;"}]{.Z3988
    title="ctx_ver=Z39.88-2004&rft_val_fmt=info%3Aofi%2Ffmt%3Akev%3Amtx%3Ajournal&rft.genre=article&rft.jtitle=Journal+of+Communication&rft.atitle=Media+Imperialism+and+the+Videocassette+Recorder%3A+The+Case+of+Turkey&rft.ssn=spring&rft.volume=38&rft.issue=2&rft.pages=94&rft.date=1988&rft_id=info%3Adoi%2F10.1111%2Fj.1460-2466.1988.tb02049.x&rft.aulast=Ogan&rft.aufirst=Christine&rfr_id=info%3Asid%2Fen.wikipedia.org%3ACultural+imperialism"}]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-Ogan-8}
9.  [[**[\^](#cite_ref-9)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Downing,, John; Ali
    Mohammadi; Annabelle Sreberny-Mohammadi (1995). *Questioning the
    media: a critical introduction* (2, illustrated ed.). SAGE. p. 482.
    [ISBN](/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number "International Standard Book Number") [978-0-8039-7197-4](/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0-8039-7197-4 "Special:BookSources/978-0-8039-7197-4").[[ ]{style="display:none;"}]{.Z3988
    title="ctx_ver=Z39.88-2004&rft_val_fmt=info%3Aofi%2Ffmt%3Akev%3Amtx%3Abook&rft.genre=book&rft.btitle=Questioning+the+media%3A+a+critical+introduction&rft.pages=482&rft.edition=2%2C+illustrated&rft.pub=SAGE&rft.date=1995&rft.isbn=978-0-8039-7197-4&rft.aulast=Downing%2C&rft.aufirst=John&rft.au=Ali+Mohammadi&rft.au=Annabelle+Sreberny-Mohammadi&rfr_id=info%3Asid%2Fen.wikipedia.org%3ACultural+imperialism"}]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-9}
10. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-Salwen_10-0)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Salwen,
    Michael B. (March 1991). \"Cultural imperialism: A media effects
    approach\". *Critical Studies in Media Communication*. **8** (1):
    29--38.
    [doi](/wiki/Digital_object_identifier "Digital object identifier"):[10.1080/15295039109366778](//doi.org/10.1080/15295039109366778){.external
    .text}.[[ ]{style="display:none;"}]{.Z3988
    title="ctx_ver=Z39.88-2004&rft_val_fmt=info%3Aofi%2Ffmt%3Akev%3Amtx%3Ajournal&rft.genre=article&rft.jtitle=Critical+Studies+in+Media+Communication&rft.atitle=Cultural+imperialism%3A+A+media+effects+approach&rft.volume=8&rft.issue=1&rft.pages=29-38&rft.date=1991-03&rft_id=info%3Adoi%2F10.1080%2F15295039109366778&rft.aulast=Salwen&rft.aufirst=Michael+B.&rfr_id=info%3Asid%2Fen.wikipedia.org%3ACultural+imperialism"}]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-Salwen-10}
11. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-11)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Foucault,
    Michel. 1979. \"*Omnes et Singulatim*: Towards a Criticism of
    Political Reason\" in Faubion, James D. (ed.) *Essential Works of
    Foucault, Volume 3: Power* New York: The New
    Press]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-11}
12. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-12)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Foucault,
    Michel. 1979. \"Truth and Power\" in Faubion, James D. (ed.)
    *Essential Works of Foucault, Volume 3: Power* New York: The New
    Press]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-12}
13. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-13)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Foucault,
    Michel. 1978. \"Governmentality\" in Faubion, James D. (ed.)
    *Essential Works of Foucault, Volume 3: Power* New York: The New
    Press]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-13}
14. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-14)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Robert Young, *White
    Mythologies: Writing History and the West*, New York & London:
    Routledge, 1990.]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-14}
15. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-15)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [[Orientalism 25 Years
    Later, by Said in
    2003](http://www.counterpunch.org/said08052003.html){.external
    .text}]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-15}
16. [[\^ [^***a***^](#cite_ref-Orientalism_16-0)
    [^***b***^](#cite_ref-Orientalism_16-1)]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Saïd,
    Edward. 1978. *Orientalism.* New York: Pantheon
    Books]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-Orientalism-16}
17. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-17)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Saïd, Edward. 1993.
    *[Culture and
    Imperialism](/wiki/Culture_and_Imperialism "Culture and Imperialism")*
    New York: Pantheon Books]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-17}
18. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-18)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [LAHIRI, BULAN
    (2011-02-06). [\"Speaking to
    Spivak\"](http://www.hindu.com/lr/2011/02/06/stories/2011020650020100.htm){.external
    .text}. *[The Hindu](/wiki/The_Hindu "The Hindu")*. Chennai, India[.
    Retrieved [9 December]{.nowrap}
    2011]{.reference-accessdate}.[[ ]{style="display:none;"}]{.Z3988
    title="ctx_ver=Z39.88-2004&rft_val_fmt=info%3Aofi%2Ffmt%3Akev%3Amtx%3Ajournal&rft.genre=article&rft.jtitle=The+Hindu&rft.atitle=Speaking+to+Spivak&rft.date=2011-02-06&rft.aulast=LAHIRI&rft.aufirst=BULAN&rft_id=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.hindu.com%2Flr%2F2011%2F02%2F06%2Fstories%2F2011020650020100.htm&rfr_id=info%3Asid%2Fen.wikipedia.org%3ACultural+imperialism"}]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-18}
19. [[\^ [^***a***^](#cite_ref-speak_19-0)
    [^***b***^](#cite_ref-speak_19-1)]{.mw-cite-backlink} [[Spivak,
    Gayatri Chakravorty. 1988. \"Can the Subaltern
    Speak\"](http://www.maldura.unipd.it/dllags/docentianglo/materiali_oboe_lm/2581_001.pdf){.external
    .text}
    [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20120105154619/http://www.maldura.unipd.it/dllags/docentianglo/materiali_oboe_lm/2581_001.pdf){.external
    .text} 5 January 2012 at the [Wayback
    Machine](/wiki/Wayback_Machine "Wayback Machine").]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-speak-19}
20. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-20)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Sayre, Shay; Cynthia
    King (2010). *Entertainment and Society: Influences, Impacts, and
    Innovations* (2nd ed.). Oxon, New York: Routledge. p. 31.
    [ISBN](/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number "International Standard Book Number") [0-415-99806-9](/wiki/Special:BookSources/0-415-99806-9 "Special:BookSources/0-415-99806-9").[[ ]{style="display:none;"}]{.Z3988
    title="ctx_ver=Z39.88-2004&rft_val_fmt=info%3Aofi%2Ffmt%3Akev%3Amtx%3Abook&rft.genre=book&rft.btitle=Entertainment+and+Society%3A+Influences%2C+Impacts%2C+and+Innovations&rft.place=Oxon%2C+New+York&rft.pages=31&rft.edition=2nd&rft.pub=Routledge&rft.date=2010&rft.isbn=0-415-99806-9&rft.aulast=Sayre&rft.aufirst=Shay&rft.au=Cynthia+King&rfr_id=info%3Asid%2Fen.wikipedia.org%3ACultural+imperialism"}]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-20}
21. [[\^ [^***a***^](#cite_ref-:0_21-0)
    [^***b***^](#cite_ref-:0_21-1)]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Sabrin,
    Mohammed. [\"EXPLORING THE INTELLECTUAL FOUNDATIONS OF EGYPTIAN
    NATIONAL
    EDUCATION\"](https://getd.libs.uga.edu/pdfs/sabrin_mohammed_201305_phd.pdf){.external
    .text}
    [(PDF)]{style="font-size:85%;"}.[[ ]{style="display:none;"}]{.Z3988
    title="ctx_ver=Z39.88-2004&rft_val_fmt=info%3Aofi%2Ffmt%3Akev%3Amtx%3Abook&rft.genre=unknown&rft.btitle=EXPLORING+THE+INTELLECTUAL+FOUNDATIONS+OF+EGYPTIAN+NATIONAL+EDUCATION&rft.aulast=Sabrin&rft.aufirst=Mohammed&rft_id=https%3A%2F%2Fgetd.libs.uga.edu%2Fpdfs%2Fsabrin_mohammed_201305_phd.pdf&rfr_id=info%3Asid%2Fen.wikipedia.org%3ACultural+imperialism"}]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-:0-21}
22. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-22)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Monga, C. 1996.
    *Anthropology of Anger: Civil Society and Democracy in Africa.*
    Boulder, CO: Lynne Rienner]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-22}
23. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-wa_23-0)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [wa Thiongo, N.
    1986. *Decolonising the Mind: The Politics of Language in African
    Literature.* London: James
    Curry.]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-wa-23}
24. [[\^ [^***a***^](#cite_ref-Abdi_24-0)
    [^***b***^](#cite_ref-Abdi_24-1) [^***c***^](#cite_ref-Abdi_24-2)
    [^***d***^](#cite_ref-Abdi_24-3)]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Abdi, Ali A
    (2000). \"Globalization, Culture, and Development: Perspectives on
    Africa\". *Journal of Alternative Perspectives in the Social
    Sciences*. **2** (1): 1--26.[[ ]{style="display:none;"}]{.Z3988
    title="ctx_ver=Z39.88-2004&rft_val_fmt=info%3Aofi%2Ffmt%3Akev%3Amtx%3Ajournal&rft.genre=article&rft.jtitle=Journal+of+Alternative+Perspectives+in+the+Social+Sciences&rft.atitle=Globalization%2C+Culture%2C+and+Development%3A+Perspectives+on+Africa&rft.volume=2&rft.issue=1&rft.pages=1-26&rft.date=2000&rft.aulast=Abdi&rft.aufirst=Ali+A&rfr_id=info%3Asid%2Fen.wikipedia.org%3ACultural+imperialism"}]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-Abdi-24}
25. [[\^ [^***a***^](#cite_ref-Dunn_25-0)
    [^***b***^](#cite_ref-Dunn_25-1)
    [^***c***^](#cite_ref-Dunn_25-2)]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Dunn,
    Elizabeth C. 2004. *Privatizing Poland: Baby Food, Big Business, and
    the Remaking of Labor* Ithaca, NY: Cornell University
    Press]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-Dunn-25}
26. [[\^ [^***a***^](#cite_ref-Elyachar_26-0)
    [^***b***^](#cite_ref-Elyachar_26-1)
    [^***c***^](#cite_ref-Elyachar_26-2)
    [^***d***^](#cite_ref-Elyachar_26-3)]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Elyachar,
    Julia. 2005. *Markets of Dispossession: NGOs, Economic Development,
    and the State in Cairo* US: Duke University
    Press]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-Elyachar-26}
27. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-Mohanty_27-0)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Mohanty,
    Chandra. 1988. \"Under Western Eyes: Feminist Scholarship and
    Colonial Discourses\" *Feminist Review* no.
    30]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-Mohanty-27}
28. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-28)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Dossa, Shiraz (2007).
    \"Slicing Up \'Development\': Colonialism, political theory,
    ethics\". *Third World Quarterly*. **28** (5): 887--899.
    [doi](/wiki/Digital_object_identifier "Digital object identifier"):[10.1080/01436590701371595](//doi.org/10.1080/01436590701371595){.external
    .text}.[[ ]{style="display:none;"}]{.Z3988
    title="ctx_ver=Z39.88-2004&rft_val_fmt=info%3Aofi%2Ffmt%3Akev%3Amtx%3Ajournal&rft.genre=article&rft.jtitle=Third+World+Quarterly&rft.atitle=Slicing+Up+%27Development%27%3A+Colonialism%2C+political+theory%2C+ethics&rft.volume=28&rft.issue=5&rft.pages=887-899&rft.date=2007&rft_id=info%3Adoi%2F10.1080%2F01436590701371595&rft.aulast=Dossa&rft.aufirst=Shiraz&rfr_id=info%3Asid%2Fen.wikipedia.org%3ACultural+imperialism"}]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-28}
29. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-29)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Salwen, Michael B.
    1991. \"Cultural Imperialism: A Media Effects Approach.\" Critical
    Studies In Mass Communication 8, no. 1: 29. Communication & Mass
    Media Complete, EBSCOhost]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-29}
30. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-30)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Tan, A.s., Tan, G. K.,
    & Tan. A.S. (1987), American TV in the Philippines: A test of
    cultural impact. Journalism
    Quarterly]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-30}
31. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-31)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Kang, J. G., &
    Morgan, M. (1988). Culture clash: Impact of U.S. television in
    Korea. Journalism Quarterly]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-31}
32. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-32)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Sparkes, V. (1977). TV
    across the Canadian border: Does it matter? Journal of
    Communication,]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-32}
33. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-33)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Lechner, Frank J. and
    Boli, John (2009). *The Globalization Reader* (4th ed),
    Wiley-Blackwell. p.341]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-33}
34. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-rothkopf_34-0)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Rothkopf,
    David, [\"In Praise of Cultural
    Imperialism\"](http://www.globalpolicy.org/globaliz/cultural/globcult.htm){.external
    .text}, *Foreign Affairs*, Summer 1997, Volume 107, pp. 38--53; all
    descriptions of Rothkopf\'s points and his quotes are from this
    article
    [Archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20081117105019/http://www.globalpolicy.org/globaliz/cultural/globcult.htm){.external
    .text} 17 November 2008 at the [Wayback
    Machine](/wiki/Wayback_Machine "Wayback Machine").]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-rothkopf-34}
35. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-35)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [O\'Meara, Patrick.;
    Mehlinger, Howard D.; Krain, Matthew. (2000). [*Globalization and
    the challenges of a new century : a
    reader*](https://books.google.com/books?id=VLwlnhq01RIC&dq=Globalization+and+the+challenges&q=445+chinese#v=snippet&q=445%20chinese&f=false){.external
    .text}. Bloomington, Ind.: Indiana University Press. pp. 445--446.
    [ISBN](/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number "International Standard Book Number") [978-0-253-21355-6](/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0-253-21355-6 "Special:BookSources/978-0-253-21355-6").[[ ]{style="display:none;"}]{.Z3988
    title="ctx_ver=Z39.88-2004&rft_val_fmt=info%3Aofi%2Ffmt%3Akev%3Amtx%3Abook&rft.genre=book&rft.btitle=Globalization+and+the+challenges+of+a+new+century+%3A+a+reader&rft.place=Bloomington%2C+Ind.&rft.pages=445-446&rft.pub=Indiana+University+Press&rft.date=2000&rft.isbn=978-0-253-21355-6&rft.aulast=O%27Meara&rft.aufirst=Patrick.&rft.au=Mehlinger%2C+Howard+D.&rft.au=Krain%2C+Matthew.&rft_id=https%3A%2F%2Fbooks.google.com%2Fbooks%3Fid%3DVLwlnhq01RIC%26dq%3DGlobalization%2Band%2Bthe%2Bchallenges%26q%3D445%2Bchinese%23v%3Dsnippet%26q%3D445%2520chinese%26f%3Dfalse&rfr_id=info%3Asid%2Fen.wikipedia.org%3ACultural+imperialism"}]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-35}
36. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-36)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Jennifer Caruso,
    Australian Feminist Studies, 2012.]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-36}
37. [[\^ [^***a***^](#cite_ref-books.google.co.uk_37-0)
    [^***b***^](#cite_ref-books.google.co.uk_37-1)]{.mw-cite-backlink}
    [Kolb, RW., [*Encyclopedia of Business Ethics and
    Society*](https://books.google.com/books?id=v751AwAAQBAJ&pg=PT607&dq=%22cultural+imperialism%22+rome&hl=en&sa=X&ei=M-meVaXiFKe27Abz8K7QCA&ved=0CCAQ6AEwADgK#v=onepage&q=%22cultural%20imperialism%22%20rome&f=false){.external
    .text}, SAGE Publications, 2007, p.
    537.]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-books.google.co.uk-37}
38. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-38)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Ermatinger, JW., [*The
    Decline and Fall of the Roman
    Empire*](https://books.google.com/books?id=EdBEHD4XQ-0C&pg=PA1&dq=%22cultural+imperialism%22+rome&hl=en&sa=X&ei=p-ieVZusJKnD7gbzloLQBQ&ved=0CCEQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=%22cultural%20imperialism%22%20rome&f=false){.external
    .text}, Greenwood Publishing Group, 2004,
    p.1.]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-38}
39. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-39)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Goldhill, S., [*Being
    Greek Under Rome: Cultural Identity, the Second Sophistic and the
    Development of
    Empire*](https://books.google.com/books?id=rbwCTL507fsC&pg=PA21&dq=%22cultural+imperialism%22+rome&hl=en&sa=X&ei=p-ieVZusJKnD7gbzloLQBQ&ved=0CFEQ6AEwCA#v=snippet&q=naked%20plutarch%20open%20air&f=false){.external
    .text}, Cambridge University Press, 2006, pp. 2
    & 114.]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-39}
40. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-40)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Sabrin, Mohammed
    (2013). [\"EXPLORING THE INTELLECTUAL FOUNDATIONS OF EGYPTIAN
    NATIONAL
    EDUCATION\"](https://getd.libs.uga.edu/pdfs/sabrin_mohammed_201305_phd.pdf){.external
    .text}
    [(PDF)]{style="font-size:85%;"}.[[ ]{style="display:none;"}]{.Z3988
    title="ctx_ver=Z39.88-2004&rft_val_fmt=info%3Aofi%2Ffmt%3Akev%3Amtx%3Abook&rft.genre=unknown&rft.btitle=EXPLORING+THE+INTELLECTUAL+FOUNDATIONS+OF+EGYPTIAN+NATIONAL+EDUCATION&rft.date=2013&rft.aulast=Sabrin&rft.aufirst=Mohammed&rft_id=https%3A%2F%2Fgetd.libs.uga.edu%2Fpdfs%2Fsabrin_mohammed_201305_phd.pdf&rfr_id=info%3Asid%2Fen.wikipedia.org%3ACultural+imperialism"}]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-40}
41. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-41)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Olson, JS.; Shadle,
    R., [*Historical Dictionary of the British Empire, Volume
    2*](https://books.google.com/books?id=f0VnzMelzm8C&pg=PA682&dq=%22cultural+imperialism%22+british+empire+-sport&hl=en&sa=X&ei=5o6fVaTwEump7Ab4r4PoCQ&ved=0CFQQ6AEwCQ#v=onepage&q=%22cultural%20imperialism%22%20british%20empire%20-sport&f=false){.external
    .text}, Greenwood Publishing Group, 1996, p.
    682.]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-41}
42. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-42)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Bell, M., [*Geography
    and Imperialism,
    1820-1940*](https://books.google.com/books?id=sGa7AAAAIAAJ&dq=%22cultural+imperialism%22+british+empire+-sport&q=%22cultural+imperialism%22+curriculum#v=snippet&q=%22cultural%20imperialism%22%20curriculum&f=false){.external
    .text}, Manchester University Press, 1995, p.
    182.]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-42}
43. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-43)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Peers, DM.; Gooptu,
    N., [*India and the British
    Empire*](https://books.google.com/books?id=kTYfAQAAQBAJ&dq=%22cultural+imperialism%22+british+empire+-sport&q=%22cultural+imperialism%22+science#v=snippet&q=%22cultural%20imperialism%22%20science&f=false){.external
    .text}, OUP Oxford, 2012. p. 192.]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-43}
44. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-44)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Webster, A., [*The
    Debate on the Rise of British
    Imperialism*](https://books.google.com/books?id=EbgNECex-mkC&dq=%22cultural+imperialism%22+british+empire+-sport&q=%22cultural+imperialism%22#v=snippet&q=%22cultural%20imperialism%22&f=false){.external
    .text}, Manchester University Press, 2006, p.
    7.]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-44}
45. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-45)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Raponi, D., [*Religion
    and Politics in the Risorgimento: Britain and the New Italy,
    1861-1875*](https://books.google.com/books?id=gw5HBQAAQBAJ&dq=%22cultural+imperialism%22+british+empire+-sport&q=%22cultural+imperialism%22+manifest#v=snippet&q=%22cultural%20imperialism%22%20manifest&f=false){.external
    .text}, Palgrave Macmillan, 2014, pp.
    56-58.]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-45}
46. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-46)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Crawley, CW. (ed.),
    [*The New Cambridge Modern History: Volume 9, War and Peace in an
    Age of Upheaval,
    1793-1830*](https://books.google.com/books?id=mfV7qQ_oiVEC&dq=%22cultural+imperialism%22+nazi+war&q=%22cultural+imperialism%22+egypt+126#v=snippet&q=%22cultural%20imperialism%22%20egypt%20126&f=false){.external
    .text}. Cambridge University Press, 1965, p.
    126.]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-46}
47. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-47)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Poley, J.,
    [*Decolonisation in Germany: Weimar Narratives of Colonial Loss and
    Foreign
    Occupation*](https://books.google.com/books?id=q__sRFdeKeIC&dq=%22cultural+imperialism%22+french&q=%22cultural+imperialism%22+french+rhine+1923#v=snippet&q=%22cultural%20imperialism%22%20french%20rhine%201923&f=false){.external
    .text}, Peter Lang, 2007, pp. 165
    & 216.]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-47}
48. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-48)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Steinweis, AE; Rogers,
    DE., [*The Impact of Nazism: New Perspectives on the Third Reich and
    Its
    Legacy\'*](https://books.google.com/books?id=RZ7igJKC6YQC&pg=PA72&dq=nazi+%22cultural+imperialism%22&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0CCAQ6AEwADgKahUKEwj5n8CUo9_GAhUDPhQKHYxuAHk#v=onepage&q=nazi%20%22cultural%20imperialism%22&f=false){.external
    .text}*\', U of Nebraska Press, 2003,
    p.72.*]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-48}
49. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-49)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Kater, MH.,
    [*Composers of the Nazi Era: Eight
    Portraits*](https://books.google.com/books?id=JGSDC5w-pfMC&pg=PA275&dq=nazi+%22cultural+imperialism%22&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0CEYQ6AEwBzgKahUKEwj5n8CUo9_GAhUDPhQKHYxuAHk#v=onepage&q=nazi%20%22cultural%20imperialism%22&f=false){.external
    .text}, Oxford University Press, USA, 1999,
    p.275.]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-49}
50. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-50)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Ben-Ghiat, R.,
    [*Fascist Modernities: Italy,
    1922-1945*](https://books.google.com/books?id=MBFe5v2ZTy4C&pg=PA179&dq=nazi+%22cultural+imperialism%22&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0CD8Q6AEwBWoVChMI6_-fgarfxgIVAVYUCh3gCgAb#v=onepage&q=nazi%20%22cultural%20imperialism%22&f=false){.external
    .text}, University of California Press, 2001,
    p.17.]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-50}
51. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-51)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Gerwarth, R.,
    [*Hitler\'s Hangman: The Life of
    Heydrich*](https://books.google.com/books?id=yUz33XJnJOMC&pg=PA268&dq=nazi+%22cultural+imperialism%22&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0CDEQ6AEwAzgoahUKEwjr3IjAsd_GAhVKOhQKHdsQC1E#v=onepage&q=nazi%20%22cultural%20imperialism%22&f=false){.external
    .text}, Yale University Press, 2011, p.
    263.]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-51}
52. [[**[\^](#cite_ref-52)**]{.mw-cite-backlink} [Gregory, Derek,
    Johnston, Ron, and Pratt, Geraldine, eds. Dictionary of Human
    Geography (5th Edition). Hoboken, NJ, USA: Wiley-Blackwell, 2009.
    ProQuest ebrary. Web. 1
    February 2015.]{.reference-text}]{#cite_note-52}
:::

[References]{#References .mw-headline}[[\[]{.mw-editsection-bracket}[edit](/w/index.php?title=Cultural_imperialism&action=edit&section=22 "Edit section: References")[\]]{.mw-editsection-bracket}]{.mw-editsection}
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-   Hamm, Bernd; Russell Charles Smandych (2005). *Cultural imperialism:
    essays on the political economy of cultural domination*. Reference,
    Information and Interdisciplinary Subjects Series. University of
    Toronto Press.
    [ISBN](/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number "International Standard Book Number") [978-1-55111-707-2](/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-1-55111-707-2 "Special:BookSources/978-1-55111-707-2").[[ ]{style="display:none;"}]{.Z3988
    title="ctx_ver=Z39.88-2004&rft_val_fmt=info%3Aofi%2Ffmt%3Akev%3Amtx%3Abook&rft.genre=book&rft.btitle=Cultural+imperialism%3A+essays+on+the+political+economy+of+cultural+domination&rft.series=Reference%2C+Information+and+Interdisciplinary+Subjects+Series&rft.pub=University+of+Toronto+Press&rft.date=2005&rft.isbn=978-1-55111-707-2&rft.aulast=Hamm&rft.aufirst=Bernd&rft.au=Russell+Charles+Smandych&rfr_id=info%3Asid%2Fen.wikipedia.org%3ACultural+imperialism"}
-   Lechner, Frank; John Boli (2009). *The Globalization Reader*.
    Wiley-Blackwell.[[ ]{style="display:none;"}]{.Z3988
    title="ctx_ver=Z39.88-2004&rft_val_fmt=info%3Aofi%2Ffmt%3Akev%3Amtx%3Abook&rft.genre=book&rft.btitle=The+Globalization+Reader&rft.pub=Wiley-Blackwell&rft.date=2009&rft.aulast=Lechner&rft.aufirst=Frank&rft.au=John+Boli&rfr_id=info%3Asid%2Fen.wikipedia.org%3ACultural+imperialism"}
-   Lechner, Frank; John Boli (2012). *The Globalization Reader*. John
    Wiley & Sons.
    [ISBN](/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number "International Standard Book Number") [978-0-470-65563-4](/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0-470-65563-4 "Special:BookSources/978-0-470-65563-4").[[ ]{style="display:none;"}]{.Z3988
    title="ctx_ver=Z39.88-2004&rft_val_fmt=info%3Aofi%2Ffmt%3Akev%3Amtx%3Abook&rft.genre=book&rft.btitle=The+Globalization+Reader&rft.pub=John+Wiley+%26+Sons&rft.date=2012&rft.isbn=978-0-470-65563-4&rft.aulast=Lechner&rft.aufirst=Frank&rft.au=John+Boli&rfr_id=info%3Asid%2Fen.wikipedia.org%3ACultural+imperialism"}
-   Salwen, Michael B. (March 1991). \"Critical Studies in Mass
    Communication\". *Cultural Imperialism: A Media Effects Approach*.
    **8** (1).[[ ]{style="display:none;"}]{.Z3988
    title="ctx_ver=Z39.88-2004&rft_val_fmt=info%3Aofi%2Ffmt%3Akev%3Amtx%3Ajournal&rft.genre=article&rft.jtitle=Cultural+Imperialism%3A+A+Media+Effects+Approach&rft.atitle=Critical+Studies+in+Mass+Communication&rft.volume=8&rft.issue=1&rft.date=1991-03&rft.aulast=Salwen&rft.aufirst=Michael+B.&rfr_id=info%3Asid%2Fen.wikipedia.org%3ACultural+imperialism"}
-   Tomlinson, John (1991). *Cultural imperialism: a critical
    introduction* (illustrated, reprint ed.). Continuum International
    Publishing Group.
    [ISBN](/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number "International Standard Book Number") [978-0-8264-5013-5](/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0-8264-5013-5 "Special:BookSources/978-0-8264-5013-5").[[ ]{style="display:none;"}]{.Z3988
    title="ctx_ver=Z39.88-2004&rft_val_fmt=info%3Aofi%2Ffmt%3Akev%3Amtx%3Abook&rft.genre=book&rft.btitle=Cultural+imperialism%3A+a+critical+introduction&rft.edition=illustrated%2C+reprint&rft.pub=Continuum+International+Publishing+Group&rft.date=1991&rft.isbn=978-0-8264-5013-5&rft.aulast=Tomlinson&rft.aufirst=John&rfr_id=info%3Asid%2Fen.wikipedia.org%3ACultural+imperialism"}
-   White, Livingston A. (Spring--Summer 2001). \"Reconsidering cultural
    imperialism theory\". *Transnational Broadcasting Studies*. The
    Center for Electronic Journalism at the American University in Cairo
    and the Centre for Middle East Studies, St. Antony's College, Oxford
    (6).[[ ]{style="display:none;"}]{.Z3988
    title="ctx_ver=Z39.88-2004&rft_val_fmt=info%3Aofi%2Ffmt%3Akev%3Amtx%3Ajournal&rft.genre=article&rft.jtitle=Transnational+Broadcasting+Studies&rft.atitle=Reconsidering+cultural+imperialism+theory&rft.ssn=spring&rft.chron=spring%E2%80%93summer&rft.issue=6&rft.date=2001&rft.aulast=White&rft.aufirst=Livingston+A.&rfr_id=info%3Asid%2Fen.wikipedia.org%3ACultural+imperialism"}

[External links]{#External_links .mw-headline}[[\[]{.mw-editsection-bracket}[edit](/w/index.php?title=Cultural_imperialism&action=edit&section=23 "Edit section: External links")[\]]{.mw-editsection-bracket}]{.mw-editsection}
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-   [\"In Praise of Cultural
    Imperialism?\"](http://www.mtholyoke.edu/acad/intrel/protected/rothkopf.html){.external
    .text}, by David Rothkopf, *Foreign Policy* no. 107, Summer 1997,
    pp. 38--53, which argues that cultural imperialism is a positive
    thing.
-   [\"Reconsidering cultural imperialism theory\" by Livingston A.
    White, *Transnational Broadcasting Studies* no. 6, Spring/Summer
    2001, which argues that the idea of media imperialism is
    outdated.](http://tbsjournal.arabmediasociety.com/Archives/Spring01/whiteref.html){.external
    .text}
-   [Academic Web
    page](http://www.uky.edu/~drlane/capstone/mass/imperialism.htm){.external
    .text} from 24 February 2000, discussing the idea of cultural
    imperialism
-   [\"Cultural
    Imperialism\"](http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p00548h4){.external
    .text}, BBC Radio 4 discussion with Linda Colley, Phillip Dodd and
    Mary Beard (*In Our Time*, June 27, 2002)

::: {.navbox role="navigation" aria-labelledby="Culture" style="padding:3px"}
::: {.plainlinks .hlist .navbar .mini}
-   [v](/wiki/Template:Culture "Template:Culture")
-   [t](/wiki/Template_talk:Culture "Template talk:Culture")
-   [e](//en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Template:Culture&action=edit){.external
    .text}
:::

::: {#Culture style="font-size:114%;margin:0 4em"}
[Culture](/wiki/Culture "Culture")
:::
:::
:::
:::
:::
:::

::: {#Outline}
[Outline](/wiki/Outline_of_culture "Outline of culture")
:::

Sciences

::: {style="padding:0em 0.25em"}
-   [Cultural
    anthropology](/wiki/Cultural_anthropology "Cultural anthropology")
-   [Cultural astronomy](/wiki/Cultural_astronomy "Cultural astronomy")
-   [Cultural ecology](/wiki/Cultural_ecology "Cultural ecology")
-   [Cultural geography](/wiki/Cultural_geography "Cultural geography")
-   [Cultural
    neuroscience](/wiki/Cultural_neuroscience "Cultural neuroscience")
-   [Cultural studies](/wiki/Cultural_studies "Cultural studies")
-   [Culturology](/wiki/Culturology "Culturology")
-   [Culture theory](/wiki/Culture_theory "Culture theory")
-   [Neuroculture](/wiki/Neuroculture "Neuroculture"){.mw-redirect}
:::

Subfields

::: {style="padding:0em 0.25em"}
-   [Bioculture](/wiki/Bioculture "Bioculture")
-   [Cross-cultural
    studies](/wiki/Cross-cultural_studies "Cross-cultural studies")
    -   [Cross-cultural
        communication](/wiki/Cross-cultural_communication "Cross-cultural communication")
    -   [Cross-cultural
        leadership](/wiki/Cross-cultural_leadership "Cross-cultural leadership")
    -   [Cross-cultural
        psychiatry](/wiki/Cross-cultural_psychiatry "Cross-cultural psychiatry")
    -   [Cross-cultural
        psychology](/wiki/Cross-cultural_psychology "Cross-cultural psychology")
-   [Cultural analytics](/wiki/Cultural_analytics "Cultural analytics")
-   [Cultural economics](/wiki/Cultural_economics "Cultural economics")
-   [Cultural entomology](/wiki/Insects_in_culture "Insects in culture")
-   [Cultural history](/wiki/Cultural_history "Cultural history")
-   [Cultural mapping](/wiki/Cultural_mapping "Cultural mapping")
-   [Cultural mediation](/wiki/Cultural_mediation "Cultural mediation")
-   [Cultural
    psychology](/wiki/Cultural_psychology "Cultural psychology")
-   [Cultural values](/wiki/Value_(ethics) "Value (ethics)")
-   [Culturomics](/wiki/Culturomics "Culturomics")
-   [Intercultural
    learning](/wiki/Intercultural_learning "Intercultural learning")
-   [Intercultural
    relations](/wiki/Intercultural_relations "Intercultural relations")
-   [Philosophy of
    culture](/wiki/Philosophy_of_culture "Philosophy of culture")
-   [Popular culture
    studies](/wiki/Popular_culture_studies "Popular culture studies")
-   [Semiotics of
    culture](/wiki/Semiotics_of_culture "Semiotics of culture")
-   [Sociology of
    culture](/wiki/Sociology_of_culture "Sociology of culture")
-   [Sound culture](/wiki/Sound_culture "Sound culture"){.mw-redirect}
-   [Theology of
    culture](/wiki/Theology_of_culture "Theology of culture")
-   [Transcultural
    nursing](/wiki/Transcultural_nursing "Transcultural nursing")
:::

Types

::: {style="padding:0em 0.25em"}
-   [Constructed
    culture](/wiki/Constructed_culture "Constructed culture"){.mw-redirect}
-   [Dominant culture](/wiki/Dominant_culture "Dominant culture")
-   [Folk culture](/wiki/Folk_culture "Folk culture"){.mw-redirect}
-   [High culture](/wiki/High_culture "High culture")
-   [Individualistic
    culture](/wiki/Individualistic_culture "Individualistic culture")
-   [Legal culture](/wiki/Legal_culture "Legal culture")
-   [Low culture](/wiki/Low_culture "Low culture")
-   [Microculture](/wiki/Microculture "Microculture")
-   [Official culture](/wiki/Official_culture "Official culture")
-   [Political culture](/wiki/Political_culture "Political culture")
    -   [Civic](/wiki/Civic_political_culture "Civic political culture")
-   [Popular culture](/wiki/Popular_culture "Popular culture")
    -   [Urban](/wiki/Urban_pop_culture "Urban pop culture")
-   [Primitive culture](/wiki/Primitive_culture "Primitive culture")
-   [Subculture](/wiki/Subculture "Subculture")
    -   [Alternative
        culture](/wiki/Alternative_culture "Alternative culture")
    -   [list](/wiki/List_of_subcultures "List of subcultures")
-   [Super culture](/wiki/Super_culture "Super culture")
-   [Vernacular culture](/wiki/Vernacular_culture "Vernacular culture")
-   [Culture by
    location](/wiki/Category:Culture_by_location "Category:Culture by location")
:::

Aspects

::: {style="padding:0em 0.25em"}
-   [Acculturation](/wiki/Acculturation "Acculturation")
-   [Cultural
    appropriation](/wiki/Cultural_appropriation "Cultural appropriation")
-   [Cultural area](/wiki/Cultural_area "Cultural area")
-   [Cultural artifact](/wiki/Cultural_artifact "Cultural artifact")
-   [Cultural baggage](/wiki/Cultural_baggage "Cultural baggage")
-   [Cultural behavior](/wiki/Cultural_behavior "Cultural behavior")
-   [Cultural bias](/wiki/Cultural_bias "Cultural bias")
-   [Cultural capital](/wiki/Cultural_capital "Cultural capital")
    -   [Cross-cultural](/wiki/Cross-cultural_capital "Cross-cultural capital")
-   [Cultural
    communication](/wiki/Cultural_communication "Cultural communication")
-   [Cultural conflict](/wiki/Cultural_conflict "Cultural conflict")
-   [Cultural cringe](/wiki/Cultural_cringe "Cultural cringe")
-   [Cultural
    dissonance](/wiki/Cultural_dissonance "Cultural dissonance")
-   [Cultural emphasis](/wiki/Cultural_emphasis "Cultural emphasis")
-   [Cultural framework](/wiki/Cultural_framework "Cultural framework")
-   [Cultural heritage](/wiki/Cultural_heritage "Cultural heritage")
-   [Cultural icon](/wiki/Cultural_icon "Cultural icon")
-   [Cultural identity](/wiki/Cultural_identity "Cultural identity")
-   [Cultural industry](/wiki/Cultural_industry "Cultural industry")
-   [Cultural invention](/wiki/Cultural_invention "Cultural invention")
-   [Cultural landscape](/wiki/Cultural_landscape "Cultural landscape")
-   [Cultural learning](/wiki/Cultural_learning "Cultural learning")
-   [Cultural leveling](/wiki/Cultural_leveling "Cultural leveling")
-   [Cultural memory](/wiki/Cultural_memory "Cultural memory")
-   [Cultural pluralism](/wiki/Cultural_pluralism "Cultural pluralism")
-   [Cultural practice](/wiki/Cultural_practice "Cultural practice")
-   [Cultural property](/wiki/Cultural_property "Cultural property")
-   [Cultural
    reproduction](/wiki/Cultural_reproduction "Cultural reproduction")
-   [Cultural system](/wiki/Cultural_system "Cultural system")
-   [Cultural
    technology](/wiki/Cultural_technology "Cultural technology")
-   [Cultural universal](/wiki/Cultural_universal "Cultural universal")
-   [Cultureme](/wiki/Cultureme "Cultureme")
-   [Enculturation](/wiki/Enculturation "Enculturation")
-   [High- and low-context
    cultures](/wiki/High-_and_low-context_cultures "High- and low-context cultures"){.mw-redirect}
-   [Interculturality](/wiki/Interculturality "Interculturality"){.mw-redirect}
-   [Manuscript culture](/wiki/Manuscript_culture "Manuscript culture")
-   [Material culture](/wiki/Material_culture "Material culture")
-   [Non-material
    culture](/wiki/Non-material_culture "Non-material culture")
-   [Organizational
    culture](/wiki/Organizational_culture "Organizational culture")
-   [Print culture](/wiki/Print_culture "Print culture")
-   [Protoculture](/wiki/Protoculture "Protoculture")
-   [Safety culture](/wiki/Safety_culture "Safety culture")
-   [Technoculture](/wiki/Technoculture "Technoculture")
-   [Trans-cultural
    diffusion](/wiki/Trans-cultural_diffusion "Trans-cultural diffusion")
-   [Transculturation](/wiki/Transculturation "Transculturation")
-   [Visual culture](/wiki/Visual_culture "Visual culture")
:::

Politics

::: {style="padding:0em 0.25em"}
-   [Colonial mentality](/wiki/Colonial_mentality "Colonial mentality")
-   [Consumer
    capitalism](/wiki/Consumer_capitalism "Consumer capitalism")
-   [Cross cultural
    sensitivity](/wiki/Cross_cultural_sensitivity "Cross cultural sensitivity")
-   [Cultural
    assimilation](/wiki/Cultural_assimilation "Cultural assimilation")
-   [Cultural attaché](/wiki/Cultural_attach%C3%A9 "Cultural attaché")
-   [Cultural
    backwardness](/wiki/Cultural_backwardness "Cultural backwardness")
-   [Cultural
    Bolshevism](/wiki/Cultural_Bolshevism "Cultural Bolshevism")
-   [Cultural
    conservatism](/wiki/Cultural_conservatism "Cultural conservatism")
-   [Cultural contracts](/wiki/Cultural_contracts "Cultural contracts")
-   [Cultural
    deprivation](/wiki/Cultural_deprivation "Cultural deprivation")
-   [Cultural diplomacy](/wiki/Cultural_diplomacy "Cultural diplomacy")
-   [Cultural
    environmentalism](/wiki/Cultural_environmentalism "Cultural environmentalism")
-   [Cultural exception](/wiki/Cultural_exception "Cultural exception")
-   [Cultural feminism](/wiki/Cultural_feminism "Cultural feminism")
-   [Cultural genocide](/wiki/Cultural_genocide "Cultural genocide")
-   [Cultural
    globalization](/wiki/Cultural_globalization "Cultural globalization")
-   [Cultural hegemony](/wiki/Cultural_hegemony "Cultural hegemony")
-   [Cultural imperialism]{.mw-selflink .selflink}
-   [Cultural
    intelligence](/wiki/Cultural_intelligence "Cultural intelligence")
-   [Cultural
    liberalism](/wiki/Cultural_liberalism "Cultural liberalism")
-   [Cultural
    nationalism](/wiki/Cultural_nationalism "Cultural nationalism")
-   [Cultural pessimism](/wiki/Cultural_pessimism "Cultural pessimism")
-   [Cultural policy](/wiki/Cultural_policy "Cultural policy")
-   [Cultural
    racism](/wiki/Cultural_racism "Cultural racism"){.mw-redirect}
-   [Cultural
    radicalism](/wiki/Cultural_radicalism "Cultural radicalism")
-   [Cultural retention](/wiki/Cultural_retention "Cultural retention")
-   [Cultural
    Revolution](/wiki/Cultural_Revolution "Cultural Revolution")
-   [Cultural rights](/wiki/Cultural_rights "Cultural rights")
-   [Cultural safety](/wiki/Cultural_safety "Cultural safety")
-   [Cultural silence](/wiki/Cultural_silence "Cultural silence")
-   [Cultural subsidy](/wiki/Cultural_subsidy "Cultural subsidy")
-   [Cultural Zionism](/wiki/Cultural_Zionism "Cultural Zionism")
-   [Culture change](/wiki/Culture_change "Culture change")
-   [Culture minister](/wiki/Culture_minister "Culture minister")
-   [Culture of fear](/wiki/Culture_of_fear "Culture of fear")
-   [Culture war](/wiki/Culture_war "Culture war")
-   [Deculturalization](/wiki/Deculturalization "Deculturalization")
-   [Dominator culture](/wiki/Dominator_culture "Dominator culture")
-   [Interculturalism](/wiki/Interculturalism "Interculturalism")
-   [Intraculturalism](/wiki/Intraculturalism "Intraculturalism")
-   [Monoculturalism](/wiki/Monoculturalism "Monoculturalism")
-   [Multiculturalism](/wiki/Multiculturalism "Multiculturalism")
    -   [Biculturalism](/wiki/Biculturalism "Biculturalism")
-   [Pluriculturalism](/wiki/Pluriculturalism "Pluriculturalism")
-   [Polyculturalism](/wiki/Polyculturalism "Polyculturalism")
-   [Security
    culture](/wiki/Security_culture "Security culture"){.mw-redirect}
-   [Transculturism](/wiki/Transculturism "Transculturism"){.mw-redirect}
:::

Related

::: {style="padding:0em 0.25em"}
-   [Animal culture](/wiki/Animal_culture "Animal culture")
-   [Archaeological
    culture](/wiki/Archaeological_culture "Archaeological culture")
-   [Bennett scale](/wiki/Bennett_scale "Bennett scale")
-   [Bullying culture](/wiki/Bullying_culture "Bullying culture")
-   [Cannabis culture](/wiki/Cannabis_culture "Cannabis culture")
-   [Circuit of culture](/wiki/Circuit_of_culture "Circuit of culture")
-   [Coffee culture](/wiki/Coffee_culture "Coffee culture")
-   [Cross-cultural](/wiki/Cross-cultural "Cross-cultural")
-   [Cultural center](/wiki/Cultural_center "Cultural center")
-   [Cultural Christian](/wiki/Cultural_Christian "Cultural Christian")
    -   [Cultural
        Mormon](/wiki/Cultural_Mormon "Cultural Mormon"){.mw-redirect}
-   [Cultural
    competence](/wiki/Cultural_competence "Cultural competence"){.mw-redirect}
-   [Cultural critic](/wiki/Cultural_critic "Cultural critic")
-   [Cultural Detective](/wiki/Cultural_Detective "Cultural Detective")
-   [Cultural
    determinism](/wiki/Cultural_determinism "Cultural determinism")
-   [Cultural diversity](/wiki/Cultural_diversity "Cultural diversity")
-   [Cultural encoding](/wiki/Cultural_encoding "Cultural encoding")
-   [Cultural
    evolutionism](/wiki/Cultural_evolutionism "Cultural evolutionism"){.mw-redirect}
-   [Cultural Hindu](/wiki/Cultural_Hindu "Cultural Hindu")
-   [Cultural
    homogenization](/wiki/Cultural_homogenization "Cultural homogenization")
-   [Cultural
    institution](/wiki/Cultural_institution "Cultural institution")
-   [Cultural jet lag](/wiki/Cultural_jet_lag "Cultural jet lag")
-   [Cultural Judaism](/wiki/Cultural_Judaism "Cultural Judaism")
-   [Cultural lag](/wiki/Cultural_lag "Cultural lag")
-   [Cultural literacy](/wiki/Cultural_literacy "Cultural literacy")
-   [Cultural mosaic](/wiki/Cultural_mosaic "Cultural mosaic")
-   [Cultural movement](/wiki/Cultural_movement "Cultural movement")
-   [Cultural mulatto](/wiki/Cultural_mulatto "Cultural mulatto")
-   [Cultural Muslim](/wiki/Cultural_Muslim "Cultural Muslim")
-   [Cultural probe](/wiki/Cultural_probe "Cultural probe")
-   [Cultural
    relativism](/wiki/Cultural_relativism "Cultural relativism")
-   [Culture
    speculation](/wiki/Culture_speculation "Culture speculation")
-   [Cultural tourism](/wiki/Cultural_tourism "Cultural tourism")
    -   [Pop-culture](/wiki/Pop-culture_tourism "Pop-culture tourism")
-   [Cultural
    translation](/wiki/Cultural_translation "Cultural translation")
-   [Cultural turn](/wiki/Cultural_turn "Cultural turn")
-   [Cultural
    sensibility](/wiki/Cultural_sensibility "Cultural sensibility")
-   [Culture and
    menstruation](/wiki/Culture_and_menstruation "Culture and menstruation")
-   [Culture and positive
    psychology](/wiki/Culture_and_positive_psychology "Culture and positive psychology")
-   [Culture and social
    cognition](/wiki/Culture_and_social_cognition "Culture and social cognition")
-   [Culture gap](/wiki/Culture_gap "Culture gap")
-   [Culture hero](/wiki/Culture_hero "Culture hero")
-   [Culture industry](/wiki/Culture_industry "Culture industry")
-   [Culture shock](/wiki/Culture_shock "Culture shock")
-   [Culturgen](/wiki/Culturgen "Culturgen")
-   [Children\'s
    culture](/wiki/Children%27s_culture "Children's culture")
-   [Culturalism](/wiki/Culturalism "Culturalism")
-   [Cyberculture](/wiki/Cyberculture "Cyberculture"){.mw-redirect}
-   [Death and culture](/wiki/Death_and_culture "Death and culture")
-   [Disability culture](/wiki/Disability_culture "Disability culture")
    -   [Deaf culture](/wiki/Deaf_culture "Deaf culture")
-   [Emotions and
    culture](/wiki/Emotions_and_culture "Emotions and culture")
-   [Intercultural
    communication](/wiki/Intercultural_communication "Intercultural communication")
-   [Intercultural
    competence](/wiki/Intercultural_competence "Intercultural competence")
-   [Languaculture](/wiki/Languaculture "Languaculture")
-   [Living things in
    culture](/wiki/Living_things_in_culture "Living things in culture")
-   [Media culture](/wiki/Media_culture "Media culture")
-   [Oppositional
    culture](/wiki/Oppositional_culture "Oppositional culture")
-   [Participatory
    culture](/wiki/Participatory_culture "Participatory culture")
-   [Permission culture](/wiki/Permission_culture "Permission culture")
-   [Rape culture](/wiki/Rape_culture "Rape culture")
-   [Remix culture](/wiki/Remix_culture "Remix culture")
-   [Tea culture](/wiki/Tea_culture "Tea culture")
-   [Transformation of
    culture](/wiki/Transformation_of_culture "Transformation of culture"){.mw-redirect}
-   [Urban culture](/wiki/Urban_culture "Urban culture")
-   [Welfare culture](/wiki/Welfare_culture "Welfare culture")
-   [Western culture](/wiki/Western_culture "Western culture")
:::

<div>

-   ![Category](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/4/48/Folder_Hexagonal_Icon.svg/16px-Folder_Hexagonal_Icon.svg.png "Category"){width="16"
    height="14"
    srcset="//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/4/48/Folder_Hexagonal_Icon.svg/24px-Folder_Hexagonal_Icon.svg.png 1.5x, //upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/4/48/Folder_Hexagonal_Icon.svg/32px-Folder_Hexagonal_Icon.svg.png 2x"}**[Category](/wiki/Category:Culture "Category:Culture")**
-   ![Portal](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/f/fd/Portal-puzzle.svg/16px-Portal-puzzle.svg.png "Portal"){width="16"
    height="14"
    srcset="//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/f/fd/Portal-puzzle.svg/24px-Portal-puzzle.svg.png 1.5x, //upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/f/fd/Portal-puzzle.svg/32px-Portal-puzzle.svg.png 2x"}**[Portal](/wiki/Portal:Culture "Portal:Culture")**
-   ![Commons
    page](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/4/4a/Commons-logo.svg/12px-Commons-logo.svg.png "Commons page"){width="12"
    height="16"
    srcset="//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/4/4a/Commons-logo.svg/18px-Commons-logo.svg.png 1.5x, //upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/4/4a/Commons-logo.svg/24px-Commons-logo.svg.png 2x"}
    **[Commons](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Culture "commons:Category:Culture"){.extiw}**
-   ![WikiProject](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/3/37/People_icon.svg/16px-People_icon.svg.png "WikiProject"){width="16"
    height="16"
    srcset="//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/3/37/People_icon.svg/24px-People_icon.svg.png 1.5x, //upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/3/37/People_icon.svg/32px-People_icon.svg.png 2x"}**[WikiProject](/wiki/Wikipedia:Culture "Wikipedia:Culture")**
-   [changes](/wiki/Special:RecentChangesLinked/Template:Culture "Special:RecentChangesLinked/Template:Culture")

</div>

::: {.navbox role="navigation" aria-labelledby="Michel_Foucault" style="padding:3px"}
::: {.plainlinks .hlist .navbar .mini}
-   [v](/wiki/Template:Michel_Foucault "Template:Michel Foucault")
-   [t](/wiki/Template_talk:Michel_Foucault "Template talk:Michel Foucault")
-   [e](//en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Template:Michel_Foucault&action=edit){.external
    .text}
:::

::: {#Michel_Foucault style="font-size:114%;margin:0 4em"}
[Michel Foucault](/wiki/Michel_Foucault "Michel Foucault")
:::
:::

Books

::: {style="padding:0em 0.25em"}
-   *[Mental Illness and
    Psychology](/wiki/Mental_Illness_and_Psychology "Mental Illness and Psychology"){.mw-redirect}* (1954)
-   *[Madness and
    Civilization](/wiki/Madness_and_Civilization "Madness and Civilization")* (1961)
-   *[The Birth of the
    Clinic](/wiki/The_Birth_of_the_Clinic "The Birth of the Clinic")* (1963)
-   *[Death and the
    Labyrinth](/w/index.php?title=Death_and_the_Labyrinth&action=edit&redlink=1 "Death and the Labyrinth (page does not exist)"){.new}* (1963)
-   *[The Order of
    Things](/wiki/The_Order_of_Things "The Order of Things")* (1966)
-   *[This is Not a
    Pipe](/w/index.php?title=This_Is_Not_a_Pipe_(book)&action=edit&redlink=1 "This Is Not a Pipe (book) (page does not exist)"){.new}* (1968)
-   *[The Archaeology of
    Knowledge](/wiki/The_Archaeology_of_Knowledge "The Archaeology of Knowledge")* (1969)
-   *[Discipline and
    Punish](/wiki/Discipline_and_Punish "Discipline and Punish")* (1975)
-   *[The History of
    Sexuality](/wiki/The_History_of_Sexuality "The History of Sexuality")*
    (1976--2018)
:::

Essays, lectures,\
dialogues and anthologies

::: {style="padding:0em 0.25em"}
-   *[Introduction to Kant\'s
    Anthropology](/wiki/Introduction_to_Kant%27s_Anthropology "Introduction to Kant's Anthropology")* (1964)
-   \"[What Is an
    Author?](/wiki/What_Is_an_Author%3F "What Is an Author?")\" (1969)
-   [Foucault\'s lectures at the Collège de
    France](/wiki/Foucault%27s_lectures_at_the_Coll%C3%A8ge_de_France "Foucault's lectures at the Collège de France")
-   *[I, Pierre Riviere, Having Slaughtered my Mother, my Sister and my
    Brother](/w/index.php?title=I,_Pierre_Riviere,_Having_Slaughtered_my_Mother,_my_Sister_and_my_Brother&action=edit&redlink=1 "I, Pierre Riviere, Having Slaughtered my Mother, my Sister and my Brother (page does not exist)"){.new}* (1973)
-   *[Language, Counter-Memory,
    Practice](/w/index.php?title=Language,_Counter-Memory,_Practice&action=edit&redlink=1 "Language, Counter-Memory, Practice (page does not exist)"){.new}* (1977)
-   *[Sexual Morality and the
    Law](/wiki/Sexual_Morality_and_the_Law "Sexual Morality and the Law")* (1978)
-   *[Herculine
    Barbin](/w/index.php?title=Herculine_Barbin_(Foucault)&action=edit&redlink=1 "Herculine Barbin (Foucault) (page does not exist)"){.new}* (1978)
-   *[Power/Knowledge](/w/index.php?title=Power/Knowledge&action=edit&redlink=1 "Power/Knowledge (page does not exist)"){.new}* (1980)
-   *[Remarks on
    Marx](/w/index.php?title=Remarks_on_Marx&action=edit&redlink=1 "Remarks on Marx (page does not exist)"){.new}* (1980)
-   *[Le Désordre des
    familles](/w/index.php?title=Le_D%C3%A9sordre_des_familles&action=edit&redlink=1 "Le Désordre des familles (page does not exist)"){.new}* (1982)
-   *[The Foucault
    Reader](/w/index.php?title=The_Foucault_Reader&action=edit&redlink=1 "The Foucault Reader (page does not exist)"){.new}* (1984)
-   *[Politics, Philosophy,
    Culture](/w/index.php?title=Politics,_Philosophy,_Culture&action=edit&redlink=1 "Politics, Philosophy, Culture (page does not exist)"){.new}* (1988)
-   *[Foucault
    Live](/w/index.php?title=Foucault_Live&action=edit&redlink=1 "Foucault Live (page does not exist)"){.new}* (1996)
-   *[The Politics of
    Truth](/w/index.php?title=The_Politics_of_Truth_(Foucault)&action=edit&redlink=1 "The Politics of Truth (Foucault) (page does not exist)"){.new}* (1997)
-   *[Society Must Be
    Defended](/w/index.php?title=Society_Must_Be_Defended&action=edit&redlink=1 "Society Must Be Defended (page does not exist)"){.new}* (1997)
-   *[Ethics: Subjectivity and Truth (Essential Works
    Volume 1)](/w/index.php?title=Ethics:_Subjectivity_and_Truth_(Essential_Works_Volume_1)&action=edit&redlink=1 "Ethics: Subjectivity and Truth (Essential Works Volume 1) (page does not exist)"){.new}* (1997)
-   *[Aesthetics, Method, Epistemology (Essential Works
    Volume 2)](/w/index.php?title=Aesthetics,_Method,_Epistemology_(Essential_Works_Volume_2)&action=edit&redlink=1 "Aesthetics, Method, Epistemology (Essential Works Volume 2) (page does not exist)"){.new}* (1998)
-   *[Abnormal](/w/index.php?title=Abnormal_(Foucault)&action=edit&redlink=1 "Abnormal (Foucault) (page does not exist)"){.new}* (1999)
-   *[Power (Essential Works
    Volume 3)](/w/index.php?title=Power_(Essential_Works_Volume_3)&action=edit&redlink=1 "Power (Essential Works Volume 3) (page does not exist)"){.new}* (2000)
-   *[Fearless
    Speech](/w/index.php?title=Fearless_Speech&action=edit&redlink=1 "Fearless Speech (page does not exist)"){.new}* (2001)
-   *[The Hermeneutics of the
    Subject](/wiki/The_Hermeneutics_of_the_Subject "The Hermeneutics of the Subject")* (2001)
-   *[The Essential
    Foucault](/w/index.php?title=The_Essential_Foucault&action=edit&redlink=1 "The Essential Foucault (page does not exist)"){.new}* (2003)
-   *[Psychiatric
    Power](/w/index.php?title=Psychiatric_Power&action=edit&redlink=1 "Psychiatric Power (page does not exist)"){.new}* (2003)
-   *[Security, Territory,
    Population](/wiki/Security,_Territory,_Population "Security, Territory, Population")* (2004)
-   *[The Birth of
    Biopolitics](/wiki/The_Birth_of_Biopolitics "The Birth of Biopolitics")* (2004)
-   *[The Government of Self and
    Others](/w/index.php?title=The_Government_of_Self_and_Others&action=edit&redlink=1 "The Government of Self and Others (page does not exist)"){.new}* (2008)
-   *[The Courage of
    Truth](/w/index.php?title=The_Courage_of_Truth&action=edit&redlink=1 "The Courage of Truth (page does not exist)"){.new}* (2009)
-   *[Lectures on the Will to
    Know](/w/index.php?title=Lectures_on_the_Will_to_Know&action=edit&redlink=1 "Lectures on the Will to Know (page does not exist)"){.new}* (2011)
-   *[On the Government of the
    Living](/w/index.php?title=On_the_Government_of_the_Living&action=edit&redlink=1 "On the Government of the Living (page does not exist)"){.new}* (2012)
-   *[Subjectivity and
    Truth](/w/index.php?title=Subjectivity_and_Truth&action=edit&redlink=1 "Subjectivity and Truth (page does not exist)"){.new}* (2012)
-   *[Wrong-Doing,
    Truth-Telling](/w/index.php?title=Wrong-Doing,_Truth-Telling&action=edit&redlink=1 "Wrong-Doing, Truth-Telling (page does not exist)"){.new}* (2013)
-   *[On the Punitive
    Society](/w/index.php?title=On_the_Punitive_Society&action=edit&redlink=1 "On the Punitive Society (page does not exist)"){.new}* (2015)
:::

Concepts

::: {style="padding:0em 0.25em"}
-   [Anti-psychiatry](/wiki/Anti-psychiatry "Anti-psychiatry")
-   [Author function](/wiki/Author_function "Author function")
-   [Biopolitics](/wiki/Biopolitics "Biopolitics")
-   [Biopower](/wiki/Biopower "Biopower")
-   [Carceral
    archipelago](/wiki/Carceral_archipelago "Carceral archipelago")
-   [Cultural imperialism]{.mw-selflink .selflink}
-   [Disciplinary
    institution](/wiki/Disciplinary_institution "Disciplinary institution")
-   [Discontinuity](/wiki/Discontinuity_(Postmodernism) "Discontinuity (Postmodernism)")
-   [Discourse analysis](/wiki/Discourse_analysis "Discourse analysis")
-   [Dispositif](/wiki/Dispositif "Dispositif")
-   [Ecogovernmentality](/wiki/Ecogovernmentality "Ecogovernmentality")
-   [Episteme](/wiki/Episteme "Episteme")
-   [Genealogy](/wiki/Genealogy_(philosophy) "Genealogy (philosophy)")
-   [Governmentality](/wiki/Governmentality "Governmentality")
-   [Heterotopia](/wiki/Heterotopia_(space) "Heterotopia (space)")
-   [Interdiscourse](/wiki/Interdiscourse "Interdiscourse")
-   [Limit-experience](/wiki/Limit-experience "Limit-experience")
-   [Panopticism](/wiki/Panopticism "Panopticism")
-   [Panopticon](/wiki/Panopticon "Panopticon")
-   [Parrhesia](/wiki/Parrhesia "Parrhesia")
-   [Power (social and
    political)](/wiki/Power_(social_and_political) "Power (social and political)")
-   [Postsexualism](/wiki/Postsexualism "Postsexualism"){.mw-redirect}
-   [Sapere aude](/wiki/Sapere_aude "Sapere aude")
:::

Influence

::: {style="padding:0em 0.25em"}
-   [Cogito and the History of
    Madness](/wiki/Cogito_and_the_History_of_Madness "Cogito and the History of Madness")
    (Derrida)
-   [Foucauldian discourse
    analysis](/wiki/Foucauldian_discourse_analysis "Foucauldian discourse analysis")
-   *Foucault* (Deleuze)
-   *[The Passion of Michel
    Foucault](/wiki/The_Passion_of_Michel_Foucault "The Passion of Michel Foucault")*
    (Miller)
-   [Giorgio Agamben](/wiki/Giorgio_Agamben "Giorgio Agamben")
-   [Gary Gutting](/wiki/Gary_Gutting "Gary Gutting")
-   [Thomas Lemke](/wiki/Thomas_Lemke "Thomas Lemke")
-   [James
    Miller](/wiki/James_Miller_(academic) "James Miller (academic)")
-   [Paul Rabinow](/wiki/Paul_Rabinow "Paul Rabinow")
-   [Claude Raffestin](/wiki/Claude_Raffestin "Claude Raffestin")
-   [Nikolas Rose](/wiki/Nikolas_Rose "Nikolas Rose")
:::

Related articles

::: {style="padding:0em 0.25em"}
-   [Bibliography](/wiki/Michel_Foucault_bibliography "Michel Foucault bibliography")
-   [Foucault--Habermas
    debate](/wiki/Foucault%E2%80%93Habermas_debate "Foucault–Habermas debate")
-   [Chomsky--Foucault
    debate](/wiki/Chomsky%E2%80%93Foucault_debate "Chomsky–Foucault debate")
-   [Daniel Defert](/wiki/Daniel_Defert "Daniel Defert")
-   [François Ewald](/wiki/Fran%C3%A7ois_Ewald "François Ewald")
-   [Alan Sheridan](/wiki/Alan_Sheridan "Alan Sheridan")
:::

::: {.navbox role="navigation" aria-labelledby="Authority_control_frameless_&#124;text-top_&#124;10px_&#124;alt=Edit_this_at_Wikidata_&#124;link=https&#58;//www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q844890&#124;Edit_this_at_Wikidata" style="padding:3px"}
+-----------------------------------+:----------------------------------+
| [Authority                        | ::: {style="padding:0em 0.25em"}  |
| control](/wiki/Help:Authority_con | -   [[GND](/wiki/Integrated_Autho |
| trol "Help:Authority control")    | rity_File "Integrated Authority F |
| [![Edit this at                   | ile"):                            |
| Wikidata](//upload.wikimedia.org/ |     [[4445050-3](https://d-nb.inf |
| wikipedia/commons/thumb/7/73/Blue | o/gnd/4445050-3){.external        |
| _pencil.svg/10px-Blue_pencil.svg. |     .text}]{.uid}]{.nowrap}       |
| png){width="10"                   | :::                               |
| height="10"                       |                                   |
| srcset="//upload.wikimedia.org/wi |                                   |
| kipedia/commons/thumb/7/73/Blue_p |                                   |
| encil.svg/15px-Blue_pencil.svg.pn |                                   |
| g 1.5x, //upload.wikimedia.org/wi |                                   |
| kipedia/commons/thumb/7/73/Blue_p |                                   |
| encil.svg/20px-Blue_pencil.svg.pn |                                   |
| g 2x"}](https://www.wikidata.org/ |                                   |
| wiki/Q844890 "Edit this at Wikida |                                   |
| ta")                              |                                   |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
:::

![](//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:CentralAutoLogin/start?type=1x1){width="1"
height="1"}

::: {.printfooter}
Retrieved from
\"<https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cultural_imperialism&oldid=855041328>\"
:::

::: {#catlinks .catlinks data-mw="interface"}
::: {#mw-normal-catlinks .mw-normal-catlinks}
[Categories](/wiki/Help:Category "Help:Category"):

-   [Cultural
    geography](/wiki/Category:Cultural_geography "Category:Cultural geography")
-   [Cultural
    hegemony](/wiki/Category:Cultural_hegemony "Category:Cultural hegemony")
-   [Cultural
    studies](/wiki/Category:Cultural_studies "Category:Cultural studies")
-   [Culture](/wiki/Category:Culture "Category:Culture")
-   [Culture
    terminology](/wiki/Category:Culture_terminology "Category:Culture terminology")
-   [Imperialism](/wiki/Category:Imperialism "Category:Imperialism")
-   [Political
    science](/wiki/Category:Political_science "Category:Political science")
-   [Postmodern
    theory](/wiki/Category:Postmodern_theory "Category:Postmodern theory")
:::

::: {#mw-hidden-catlinks .mw-hidden-catlinks .mw-hidden-cats-hidden}
Hidden categories:

-   [Webarchive template wayback
    links](/wiki/Category:Webarchive_template_wayback_links "Category:Webarchive template wayback links")
-   [Wikipedia articles that may have off-topic
    sections](/wiki/Category:Wikipedia_articles_that_may_have_off-topic_sections "Category:Wikipedia articles that may have off-topic sections")
-   [Use dmy dates from September
    2011](/wiki/Category:Use_dmy_dates_from_September_2011 "Category:Use dmy dates from September 2011")
-   [Wikipedia articles with GND
    identifiers](/wiki/Category:Wikipedia_articles_with_GND_identifiers "Category:Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers")
:::
:::

::: {.visualClear}
:::

::: {#mw-navigation}
Navigation menu
---------------

::: {#mw-head}
::: {#p-personal role="navigation" aria-labelledby="p-personal-label"}
### Personal tools {#p-personal-label}

-   [Not logged in]{#pt-anonuserpage}
-   [[Talk](/wiki/Special:MyTalk "Discussion about edits from this IP address [n]")]{#pt-anontalk}
-   [[Contributions](/wiki/Special:MyContributions "A list of edits made from this IP address [y]")]{#pt-anoncontribs}
-   [[Create
    account](/w/index.php?title=Special:CreateAccount&returnto=Cultural+imperialism "You are encouraged to create an account and log in; however, it is not mandatory")]{#pt-createaccount}
-   [[Log
    in](/w/index.php?title=Special:UserLogin&returnto=Cultural+imperialism "You're encouraged to log in; however, it's not mandatory. [o]")]{#pt-login}
:::

::: {#left-navigation}
::: {#p-namespaces .vectorTabs role="navigation" aria-labelledby="p-namespaces-label"}
### Namespaces {#p-namespaces-label}

-   [[Article](/wiki/Cultural_imperialism "View the content page [c]")]{#ca-nstab-main}
-   [[Talk](/wiki/Talk:Cultural_imperialism "Discussion about the content page [t]")]{#ca-talk}
:::

::: {#p-variants .vectorMenu .emptyPortlet role="navigation" aria-labelledby="p-variants-label"}
### Variants {#p-variants-label}

::: {.menu}
:::
:::
:::

::: {#right-navigation}
::: {#p-views .vectorTabs role="navigation" aria-labelledby="p-views-label"}
### Views {#p-views-label}

-   [[Read](/wiki/Cultural_imperialism)]{#ca-view}
-   [[Edit](/w/index.php?title=Cultural_imperialism&action=edit "Edit this page [e]")]{#ca-edit}
-   [[View
    history](/w/index.php?title=Cultural_imperialism&action=history "Past revisions of this page [h]")]{#ca-history}
:::

::: {#p-cactions .vectorMenu .emptyPortlet role="navigation" aria-labelledby="p-cactions-label"}
### More {#p-cactions-label}

::: {.menu}
:::
:::

::: {#p-search role="search"}
### Search

::: {#simpleSearch}
:::
:::
:::
:::

::: {#mw-panel}
::: {#p-logo role="banner"}
[](/wiki/Main_Page "Visit the main page"){.mw-wiki-logo}
:::

::: {#p-navigation .portal role="navigation" aria-labelledby="p-navigation-label"}
### Navigation {#p-navigation-label}

::: {.body}
-   [[Main
    page](/wiki/Main_Page "Visit the main page [z]")]{#n-mainpage-description}
-   [[Contents](/wiki/Portal:Contents "Guides to browsing Wikipedia")]{#n-contents}
-   [[Featured
    content](/wiki/Portal:Featured_content "Featured content – the best of Wikipedia")]{#n-featuredcontent}
-   [[Current
    events](/wiki/Portal:Current_events "Find background information on current events")]{#n-currentevents}
-   [[Random
    article](/wiki/Special:Random "Load a random article [x]")]{#n-randompage}
-   [[Donate to
    Wikipedia](https://donate.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:FundraiserRedirector?utm_source=donate&utm_medium=sidebar&utm_campaign=C13_en.wikipedia.org&uselang=en "Support us")]{#n-sitesupport}
-   [[Wikipedia
    store](//shop.wikimedia.org "Visit the Wikipedia store")]{#n-shoplink}
:::
:::

::: {#p-interaction .portal role="navigation" aria-labelledby="p-interaction-label"}
### Interaction {#p-interaction-label}

::: {.body}
-   [[Help](/wiki/Help:Contents "Guidance on how to use and edit Wikipedia")]{#n-help}
-   [[About
    Wikipedia](/wiki/Wikipedia:About "Find out about Wikipedia")]{#n-aboutsite}
-   [[Community
    portal](/wiki/Wikipedia:Community_portal "About the project, what you can do, where to find things")]{#n-portal}
-   [[Recent
    changes](/wiki/Special:RecentChanges "A list of recent changes in the wiki [r]")]{#n-recentchanges}
-   [[Contact
    page](//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Contact_us "How to contact Wikipedia")]{#n-contactpage}
:::
:::

::: {#p-tb .portal role="navigation" aria-labelledby="p-tb-label"}
### Tools {#p-tb-label}

::: {.body}
-   [[What links
    here](/wiki/Special:WhatLinksHere/Cultural_imperialism "List of all English Wikipedia pages containing links to this page [j]")]{#t-whatlinkshere}
-   [[Related
    changes](/wiki/Special:RecentChangesLinked/Cultural_imperialism "Recent changes in pages linked from this page [k]")]{#t-recentchangeslinked}
-   [[Upload
    file](/wiki/Wikipedia:File_Upload_Wizard "Upload files [u]")]{#t-upload}
-   [[Special
    pages](/wiki/Special:SpecialPages "A list of all special pages [q]")]{#t-specialpages}
-   [[Permanent
    link](/w/index.php?title=Cultural_imperialism&oldid=855041328 "Permanent link to this revision of the page")]{#t-permalink}
-   [[Page
    information](/w/index.php?title=Cultural_imperialism&action=info "More information about this page")]{#t-info}
-   [[Wikidata
    item](https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Special:EntityPage/Q844890 "Link to connected data repository item [g]")]{#t-wikibase}
-   [[Cite this
    page](/w/index.php?title=Special:CiteThisPage&page=Cultural_imperialism&id=855041328 "Information on how to cite this page")]{#t-cite}
:::
:::

::: {#p-coll-print_export .portal role="navigation" aria-labelledby="p-coll-print_export-label"}
### Print/export {#p-coll-print_export-label}

::: {.body}
-   [[Create a
    book](/w/index.php?title=Special:Book&bookcmd=book_creator&referer=Cultural+imperialism)]{#coll-create_a_book}
-   [[Download as
    PDF](/w/index.php?title=Special:ElectronPdf&page=Cultural+imperialism&action=show-download-screen)]{#coll-download-as-rdf2latex}
-   [[Printable
    version](/w/index.php?title=Cultural_imperialism&printable=yes "Printable version of this page [p]")]{#t-print}
:::
:::

::: {#p-lang .portal role="navigation" aria-labelledby="p-lang-label"}
### Languages {#p-lang-label}

::: {.body}
-   [العربية](https://ar.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D8%A7%D8%B3%D8%AA%D8%B9%D9%85%D8%A7%D8%B1_%D8%AB%D9%82%D8%A7%D9%81%D9%8A "استعمار ثقافي – Arabic"){.interlanguage-link-target}
-   [Cymraeg](https://cy.wikipedia.org/wiki/Imperialaeth_ddiwylliannol "Imperialaeth ddiwylliannol – Welsh"){.interlanguage-link-target}
-   [Deutsch](https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kulturimperialismus "Kulturimperialismus – German"){.interlanguage-link-target}
-   [Eesti](https://et.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kultuuriimperialism "Kultuuriimperialism – Estonian"){.interlanguage-link-target}
-   [Español](https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Imperialismo_cultural "Imperialismo cultural – Spanish"){.interlanguage-link-target}
-   [Esperanto](https://eo.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kultura_imperiismo "Kultura imperiismo – Esperanto"){.interlanguage-link-target}
-   [فارسی](https://fa.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D8%A7%D9%85%D9%BE%D8%B1%DB%8C%D8%A7%D9%84%DB%8C%D8%B3%D9%85_%D9%81%D8%B1%D9%87%D9%86%DA%AF%DB%8C "امپریالیسم فرهنگی – Persian"){.interlanguage-link-target}
-   [Français](https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Imp%C3%A9rialisme_culturel "Impérialisme culturel – French"){.interlanguage-link-target}
-   [한국어](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/%EB%AC%B8%ED%99%94%EC%A0%9C%EA%B5%AD%EC%A3%BC%EC%9D%98 "문화제국주의 – Korean"){.interlanguage-link-target}
-   [हिन्दी](https://hi.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A4%B8%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%82%E0%A4%B8%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%95%E0%A5%83%E0%A4%A4%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%95_%E0%A4%B8%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%AE%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%B0%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%9C%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%AF%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%A6 "सांस्कृतिक साम्राज्यवाद – Hindi"){.interlanguage-link-target}
-   [Hrvatski](https://hr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kulturni_imperijalizam "Kulturni imperijalizam – Croatian"){.interlanguage-link-target}
-   [Bahasa
    Indonesia](https://id.wikipedia.org/wiki/Imperialisme_budaya "Imperialisme budaya – Indonesian"){.interlanguage-link-target}
-   [Íslenska](https://is.wikipedia.org/wiki/Menningarleg_heimsvaldastefna "Menningarleg heimsvaldastefna – Icelandic"){.interlanguage-link-target}
-   [Italiano](https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Imperialismo_culturale "Imperialismo culturale – Italian"){.interlanguage-link-target}
-   [Nederlands](https://nl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cultuurimperialisme "Cultuurimperialisme – Dutch"){.interlanguage-link-target}
-   [日本語](https://ja.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E6%96%87%E5%8C%96%E5%B8%9D%E5%9B%BD%E4%B8%BB%E7%BE%A9 "文化帝国主義 – Japanese"){.interlanguage-link-target}
-   [Norsk](https://no.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kulturimperialisme "Kulturimperialisme – Norwegian"){.interlanguage-link-target}
-   [Português](https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Imperialismo_cultural "Imperialismo cultural – Portuguese"){.interlanguage-link-target}
-   [Русский](https://ru.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%9A%D1%83%D0%BB%D1%8C%D1%82%D1%83%D1%80%D0%BD%D1%8B%D0%B9_%D0%B8%D0%BC%D0%BF%D0%B5%D1%80%D0%B8%D0%B0%D0%BB%D0%B8%D0%B7%D0%BC "Культурный империализм – Russian"){.interlanguage-link-target}
-   [Srpskohrvatski /
    српскохрватски](https://sh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kulturni_imperijalizam "Kulturni imperijalizam – Serbo-Croatian"){.interlanguage-link-target}
-   [Suomi](https://fi.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kulttuuri-imperialismi "Kulttuuri-imperialismi – Finnish"){.interlanguage-link-target}
-   [Svenska](https://sv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kulturimperialism "Kulturimperialism – Swedish"){.interlanguage-link-target}
-   [தமிழ்](https://ta.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%AE%AA%E0%AE%A3%E0%AF%8D%E0%AE%AA%E0%AE%BE%E0%AE%9F%E0%AF%8D%E0%AE%9F%E0%AF%81%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%8D_%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%87%E0%AE%B0%E0%AE%B0%E0%AE%9A%E0%AF%81%E0%AE%B5%E0%AE%BE%E0%AE%A4%E0%AE%AE%E0%AF%8D "பண்பாட்டுப் பேரரசுவாதம் – Tamil"){.interlanguage-link-target}
-   [Türkçe](https://tr.wikipedia.org/wiki/K%C3%BClt%C3%BCr_emperyalizmi "Kültür emperyalizmi – Turkish"){.interlanguage-link-target}
-   [Українська](https://uk.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%9A%D1%83%D0%BB%D1%8C%D1%82%D1%83%D1%80%D0%BD%D0%B8%D0%B9_%D1%96%D0%BC%D0%BF%D0%B5%D1%80%D1%96%D0%B0%D0%BB%D1%96%D0%B7%D0%BC "Культурний імперіалізм – Ukrainian"){.interlanguage-link-target}
-   [Zazaki](https://diq.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C4%B0mperyalizm%C3%AA_kulturi "İmperyalizmê kulturi – Zazaki"){.interlanguage-link-target}
-   [中文](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E6%96%87%E5%8C%96%E5%B8%9D%E5%9C%8B%E4%B8%BB%E7%BE%A9 "文化帝國主義 – Chinese"){.interlanguage-link-target}

::: {.after-portlet .after-portlet-lang}
[[Edit
links](https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Special:EntityPage/Q844890#sitelinks-wikipedia "Edit interlanguage links"){.wbc-editpage}]{.wb-langlinks-edit
.wb-langlinks-link}
:::
:::
:::
:::
:::

::: {#footer role="contentinfo"}
-   [This page was last edited on 15 August 2018, at
    14:38[ (UTC)]{.anonymous-show}.]{#footer-info-lastmod}
-   [Text is available under the [Creative Commons
    Attribution-ShareAlike
    License](//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Text_of_Creative_Commons_Attribution-ShareAlike_3.0_Unported_License)[](//creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/);
    additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the
    [Terms of Use](//wikimediafoundation.org/wiki/Terms_of_Use) and
    [Privacy Policy](//wikimediafoundation.org/wiki/Privacy_policy).
    Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the [Wikimedia Foundation,
    Inc.](//www.wikimediafoundation.org/), a non-profit
    organization.]{#footer-info-copyright}

<!-- -->

-   [[Privacy
    policy](https://foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Privacy_policy "wmf:Privacy policy"){.extiw}]{#footer-places-privacy}
-   [[About
    Wikipedia](/wiki/Wikipedia:About "Wikipedia:About")]{#footer-places-about}
-   [[Disclaimers](/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer "Wikipedia:General disclaimer")]{#footer-places-disclaimer}
-   [[Contact
    Wikipedia](//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Contact_us)]{#footer-places-contact}
-   [[Developers](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Special:MyLanguage/How_to_contribute)]{#footer-places-developers}
-   [[Cookie
    statement](https://foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Cookie_statement)]{#footer-places-cookiestatement}
-   [[Mobile
    view](//en.m.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cultural_imperialism&mobileaction=toggle_view_mobile){.noprint
    .stopMobileRedirectToggle}]{#footer-places-mobileview}

<!-- -->

-   [[![Wikimedia
    Foundation](/static/images/wikimedia-button.png){width="88"
    height="31"
    srcset="/static/images/wikimedia-button-1.5x.png 1.5x, /static/images/wikimedia-button-2x.png 2x"}](https://wikimediafoundation.org/)]{#footer-copyrightico}
-   [[![Powered by
    MediaWiki](/static/images/poweredby_mediawiki_88x31.png){width="88"
    height="31"
    srcset="/static/images/poweredby_mediawiki_132x47.png 1.5x, /static/images/poweredby_mediawiki_176x62.png 2x"}](//www.mediawiki.org/)]{#footer-poweredbyico}

::: {style="clear: both;"}
:::
:::
