I arrived in Berlin yesterday evening. I had both personal and
work-related tasks cumulated over the last weeks, while Norbert was my
guest, but even from before. Today i worked only four hours, but i
already feel in control again.

Does this happen because i have this flat only for myself? Because i
have been living here for a while and a lot of little details have
been sorted out and the edges smoothened? Or is there something in
this city, in my situation here, which makes me feel calm and safe?

The Hinterhof on which my window is open is bright and quiet. I was
often impressed by how quiet the Hinterh√∂fe in Berlin can be. I have
no appointments for the dinner, or for later, or for the next days, i
am just free, but i know that i could meet many friends. A bird sings,
i hear it loud in the silence, as i could in the small Marina di
Ragusa, yet here i know that there is a world of opportunities all
around me, just waiting for being discovered.

I don't feel the need to frenetically check my smartphone for
anything, i don't look for an escape there.

My internet connection is steady and fast. Seems obvious but it wasn't
always the case in the past months.

Maybe it is just about having an home. Maybe all those temporary
accommodations and continuously being a guest for months made me
nervous. Maybe i would feel the same wherever i will want to move my
home.

But maybe what makes me feel so quiet, here, is the memory of all the
times when i have been stressed, or tired, or in trouble among these
walls, and i managed to overcome that. The challenges i went
through. The seasons, the experiments, the dreams, the expectations,
the concerns, the worries, the plans, the errors, the small steps, the
constancy, the simple achievements, small or big, the will to do
better, the optimism, the feeling of possibility ...

The list grows. Quite some feelings, quite some time. This wooden
floor, this quiet Hinterhof, these few walls, not very bright. The
large, solid, single room with my mess at the corners, and the tram in
front of the door to bring me to the rest of Berlin, surrounding me
almost in every direction.

Am i being too nostalgic? When i try to think about it objectively,
this flat is not very beautiful, it rather looks like a prison, and i
might be having Stockolm syndrome. If i can bring with me the memory
of all the challenges i went through, i can probably find a better
place to tackle the next ones. A better place with a quiet Hinterhof,
where to brew green tea. But will i be able to find a better city for
me?
