---
title: starting to fix my freelance career
style: clear
---

While my nomadic lifestyle is finally taking off, i might start a
series of posts about a very concrete topic and a problem i have been
subjected to for a while: my career as a freelancer is not really
taking off.

[This](http://freelancing.stackexchange.com/q/3683/9865) Stack
Overflow question and answer was very inspiring for me when i started
leveling up my ambitions as a beginner freelancer, but after more than
one year trying to pursue the goal, little of that inspiration turned
into concrete results. How can i fix this?

#### The problem

My goal was to work professionally for multiple clients
concurrently. I mention *professionally*, because the idea was that
working for multiple clients would help me also in doing a more
professional kind of work.

I have to admit that i failed to achieved this goal. On one side, i
keep having a single main client, and from the point of view of
professionality i hardly notice an improvement, *in the work i do for
clients*. Of course the more time i could spend in study, training,
experiments and professional conversations did help a lot my
professional development.

#### The model

##### Rough premises

In the job world, some people do not care much about how to achieve
their goals, while other people are passionate about some techniques,
and interested in deepening their skills in their craft.

These two groups of people could also be described as people with
problems and people with solutions. The groups need each other, and
they find each other and collaborate via the job market.

I belong to the group of those passionate about a craft, thus in order
to find work i need to look for people with a problem that my skills
can help fixing.

People's problems change over time, and so does the value of the
solution i am offering. In order to keep the value of my solution
high, i need to continuously find those who needs it the most.

##### My situation

Given this model, i am in a situation where i can't find more problems
for my solutions.

##### Enter value

Something important to consider is value, my hourly rate. I found
clients on Upwork, but the rate they would accept is lower than the
one i would accept

![A simple sketch about problems, solutions and value](/images/problems and solutions.jpg)

#### Location, location, location

I moved from a tech hub like Berlin to nomading, and that makes it
harder to reason about the value, as i met my client in Berlin, but i
look for new clients on the Internet

#### Ideas

##### Be less extremist about decentralisation

As i am nomading, i still have the chance to get in touch with clients
in person when i happen to be in an hub. That also means that my
expenses are higher when in an hub. Originally i wanted to avoid
getting contracts in person because i wanted to pursue the ideal of a
global Job market on the Internet, but society changes slowly and my
life is short. As a nomad i am in an intermediate situation, and
extremism is not helping me in showing nomadism as a successful option

##### Be less extremist about wages

Not always lower wages are a sign of lack of respect or
appreciacion. Companies doing the same professional work might have
very different flows of money depending on their location. If i want
to save professionalism at least, i can weight an offer depending on
the client's location. In a perfect virtual job market, such
differences would not exist, but obviously the current job market is
still not perfect just yet

#### This is it, for now

This is how much i can write for now. Hopefully my analysis will move
forward and help me to find better directions
