It's not easy for me now to get out of the state of tension, and that
prevents me from thinking, from working like i want. I never had to
get into this state in the first place. I found myself in similar
situations other times, and often the solution is to pay more than
usual, in order to get back to where you want to be. I already started
paying more than usual for this, but it's still not enough. I can
observe some improvements though, i'll keep trying.

How to approach this? 🤔

Building an idea to use as an entry point from outside the channels.

Actually i have no idea to build, i already have many ideas that are
developing well within the new registry project. Writing about them
can be helpful. The design document has been a breakthrough for me and
eased the improvement of team collaboration by providing a simple
reference for discussions. The software design is growing side by side
with other domains of design, in continuous exchange also with the
prototyping efforts. All of this in a remote team, with cultural
differences and difficulties connecting to the Internet, and while
working on the project for 8 hours per week.

We might soon close the circle of the first prototype, while we
managed to distinguish what is uncertain from what can be the
foundation for our product.

I did not save in personality in the last weeks, but currently i feel
like the weak link, so i need to take care of myself. I'm making
progress but i know that i might need a bit more time. I hope that the
team will understand, so that we can keep building on what we have.

Before restoring the performance, i will have to restore the spirit,
the attitude of my daily work.
