----
title: different
----


i'm listening my _obliquity_ playlist again, a bit of sun through the
only light source of this house at the level of the street. while
intensity goes up with a synthapella steven bodzin i wish this
playlist lasted forever.

after the first week of expanding my capacity of daily hours i'm
satisfied about the result, albeit i expect today's performance to be
disappointing. i will stay satisfied if i'll manage to increase the
weekly average by one hours for every one of the upcoming weeks, until
the unbalance will move back to too much work again, after many
months.

while i struggle to focus for the fifth day in a row, i realise how
important these posts can become. my writing has been as fragmented as
my interests, easy to follow and easy to track, to understand, too
free from the context.

i wanted to experiment with maximum freedom and i went even too far
away as far as i'm concerned, and judging from the feedback i've
got. finally i've got a meaning for writing posts again, and it's very
different from what it was before, as i'm a very different person.

it's like if my travel had to go off-tape, otherwise it couldn't
possibly be as disruptive. i left my blog and now i'm back again,
deeply changed.

as a developer i've always been fascinated by working around all
restraints for evolution, for change, for improvement to happen. they
can be technical, personal, cultural, social, emotional, physical
etcetera. i expanded my interests more and more, until finding myself
stretched too thin, or spreaded too shallow like a lake without depth.

this blog is a channel for my flow of thoughts, fixed in space and
time, organised by a personal story, with a title to trap it into
atoms. not many links, nothing really manageable by an algorithm,
something closer to human communication than to data.

as there are no readers, it's some public human communication that
will resonate mostly with myself. still public because to me is
important not to feel closeted at least about this flow of thoughts
