
find a way with the communities you want to visit

start nomading from your country so that culture can open adequately
your comfort skills can develop adequately
you can use adequately respectful means

2018

the base principle of respectful nomading is that you cannot decide
about your accommodation individually. there are always local
communities you need to negotiate with when defining the terms of your
experience.

if you are planning to stay in a place that is not very popular, odds
are that the accommodation will not be problematic. there are many
villages in Europe where population is declining, houses are empty and
visitors are welcome. this can give you more freedom, but remember
that this freedom is empowered by the hospitality of the locals.

if are you looking for accommodation in a popular destination, it
means that there are many others trying to do the same and the local
communities are usually already receiving different forms of pressure
from who wants to move in. in order to be respectful of the
communities you are going to visit, you need first to understand
whether they are positive about your visit and in which terms.

popular destinations tend to be expensive, but you don't necessarily
need to be rich in order to feel welcome. money is a good like many
others, and the more you connect with a place the more you become able
to do without spending much. you can also connect with a place before
getting there, by studying or because you have some friends there.

getting in touch with a local culture might require more time or
effort that you expect or that you are willing to invest. if you
cannot connect with the locals this is no reason for lacking respect
trying to force your presence or abusing their hospitality.
