---
title: a peaceful morning in the daily arena
---

Leaving or not leaving Berlin. I have been thinking about it for a
long time and talking about it with colleagues and friends. I have
been preparing for the departure since more than one year collecting
experiences, resources, feedback and feelings, and now the time has
come, i cannot postpone longer, i cannot maintain the current
situation of compromise.

Currently, i am working as if i was location-independent, but living
in Berlin. This is not economically feasible anymore, mainly because
of the very high German taxes which expect a programmer to earn a lot
of money. I could do the bureaucracy and reduce the taxes, i guess,
but the problem still remains: work to stay or work to go? Up to now,
i worked to postpone the decision.

"I should just go, don't wait anymore", i think sometimes. "I enjoy
living here", other times. I wish i could have my cake and eat it as
well. This post is not ending in a solution, it will mainly be a way
to enumerate the alternatives, and clarify the tradeoffs. There are
some aspects of this decision that are not clear even to myself. I do
a lot of things following my feelings and instinct, and rationalising
is not always easy.

First off, there is something in the industry that repels me. I have
been respecting my adversion and this is mainly why living in Berlin
became financially difficult. In the last year i have been rather
uncompromising about a lot things related to work, and this mainly
resulted in consuming my resources and getting very little external
recognition. So this is surely one of the outcomes i am looking for
when i think of leaving Berlin: freedom to keep pursuing my personal
journey, freedom to not compromise. It's kind of funny that Berlin got
its reputation as a place for people to be free and find or lose
themselves, but i seem unable to live in it with this amount of
freedom.

What is _keeping_ me here, on the other hand, besides the objective
and obvious advantages and opporunities a city like Berlin has to
offer, and offered to me in the past? Well, for one, a lot of
fear. Fear of missing out, fear of making a big mistake, fear of going
back to Sicily and out of this safe, convenient, fun world. Fear of
being myself to the end, and fear of trusting my intuition.

That is the surface, but there is something deeper. There is fear of
being arrogant, fear of not understanding all the good i am giving
away, fear of asking too much to myself, fear of being delusional, and
being fighting against windmills. All at all, a whole bunch of fears
is holding me back, and i am not an Yes man or a blind optimist. I
respect my fears as i respect all of my other feelings.

And different feelings connect me with this city, as well. Feelings of
belonging, feelings of identity, feelings of gratefulness, sympathy,
and plain simple attraction, desire and greed, and curiosity, and
excitement, and admiration, respect and hope. Affection.

These are the feelings, but then it comes the reasoning, and i can see
a limit i have there. I cannot put myself in a temporal perspective,
and i cannot quit reasoning about things in a static way, as if
entities in life were eternal and immutable. From this flawed
standpoint i ask to myself: "If Berlin has been so good to me so far,
why shouldn't it be good in the future?" And i can't get out of this
attitude, i fail to fit my limited human condition, and the count of
the few years i have got to live, into this absolute schema of truth
and values.

I am trapped in that reasoning because i like long-term, sustainable
solutions. I like to get things right from the beginning, and not to
change my mind. And it's easy to find a value in being consistent,
even though consistence is not very popular in our society
currently. Valuing consistency is part of my identity, and this is why
it is so hard for me to think out of it.

This is one of my limits, and sometimes we get excited about going
beyond our limits. This is how i felt today, after Brooke left my
place, in the quiet of my single room which is way darker than the
gorgeous bright day outside. I felt all the good i was living, and i
felt the excitement to go beyond my limits. The two feelings were the
same. No separation between enjoying something good, and moving away
from it. Perceiving the good, and perceiving its limit, at the same
time, with no dissonance. This hasn't been easy for me so far. I hope
this will last, this is the attitude i need in order to make the right
decision.
