What i don't want to lose, coming back from Nowhere, is the
openness. The openness of my days, which makes me feel truly
alive. It's hard to associate that with the reliability and
availability i always wanted to offer to my clients. At the same time
the creative freedom proved to be just too important to me in order to
just give it away.

I feel like there is a tradeoff, but i don't have many cultural tools
to explore it. Using discipline is just too dry.

Among other things, i feel like i should drop the time tracker. In the
last months the barrier between work and not-work has blurred, the
time tracker is the last formal act currently dividing work from
not-work for me, and i don't like that barrier. It's kind of arbitrary
and does not make much sense any more.

The time tracker is a superficial issue in comparison to the initial
topic here, the tension between reliability and freedom/creativity
... still the two issues are interwoven for me so i have to do some
detours in the time tracker issue while tackling the deeper issue.

So about the deeper issue, i will call it the "presence" issue. We
could say that there is a tension between reliability and "presence",
where the latter is kind of a new concept for me, a term chosen to
designate the feeling, or state, i achieved at Nowhere.

That state is described in a suggestive way by [this
video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LY_83_wnk20) about supernatural
experiences. It's a state of mind where the ego counts less, but also
the rules count less. One of its features is "richness". This is the
kind of creative and productive attitude i want to have for most of my
life, including work. Maybe it's not by accident that, since when i
started getting more serious in my personal and professional research,
the boundaries between professional development and personal
development blurred until becoming hard to spot.

Now, discipline and rules personally disrupt my ability to be
present. For example when i was a full-time employee, i was forced to
daily spend a fixed amount of hours in front of the computer doing "my
job", even when doing so actually hampered my capability to actually
do the job properly, or to the best of my possibilities. In my
experience, the more rigid such rules have been, the more damaging
their effect at a level that could be called emotional, motivational,
inspirational, creative.

I experience this also about studying. It took me many years to shift
from a dry, discipline-based approach to study which was rather
destructive to an enriching, deeply fulfilling and productive personal
approach based on interest, curiosity, and passion.

such a shift in a school of engineering has been especially difficult,
but this is also what keeps me positive about the possibility to
successfully mix personal presence with reliability. For once, as an
engineer the reliability of the systems i build is more important than
my reliability as a person. On the other hand, i think that i know how
to achieve personal reliability even keeping personal presence, and
the solution is: it comes at the cost of performance.

Freely create in a reliable manner takes more time, or resources, more
or less like in the "cheap, good, quick" triad, where one can only
pick two. I had concrete experience of this during my years of
university: i did my bachelor degree in a disciplined, reliable way,
and it took more or less the time it had to take. I did my master
degree in a reliable and free way, and it took double the time it was
supposed to take. Dropping reliability has never been an option as an
student engineer, as failing to perform a test reliably would have
caused to miss the test.

