---
title: some hours of tooling
---

I have to update the Haskell compiler. I anticipate a few hours of
boring struggling with my system and it's tooling. Writing can help me
to reap some learning out of the experience and improve my process. I
don't expect anyone to find this interesting.

My compiler is installed via Nix:

```
 ~ $ which ghc
/home/francesco/.nix-profile/bin/ghc
```

I don't expect Nix to provide the most recent version, but the update
commands are simple so i might as well run them. Luckily i took a note
about how to do that.

```
 ~ $ nix-env --upgrade haskellPackages.ghc
error: cannot coerce a set to a string, at /nix/store/4h2xc7xql5p8rg0fmq69bxmc1bgfqkwi-nixpkgs-17.09pre104746.3d5e451/nixpkgs/pkgs/development/interpreters/ruby/default.nix:57:17
```

The upgrade command fails with an error which seems related to
interpreting something via Ruby. I shouldn't be having anything to do
with Ruby for a task like this. Also, Nix is being unstable on
updates, which is the main features i expect from it. I will try to
just ditch Nix for Haskell. The only reason i use Nix with Haskell is
to expose a binding to the Z compression library, but hopefully with a
more recent version of the compiler, that won't be needed anymore.

Removing the version of the compiler provided by Nix would make
troubleshooting easier, but i'm not sure that ditching Nix is going to
be the best decision in the end, so i will try to install a new
compiler and use it side by side with the one provided by Nix.

Now, the problem is not the compiler in itself but the Cabal system,
because of the shared status represented by the installed packages,
and the interactions wyth the operative system via the system
libraries.

```
 ~ $ which cabal
/home/francesco/.nix-profile/bin/cabal
```

Also Cabal is provided by Nix.

#### Enter Stack

Stack actually has been designed in order to solve all of these
problems. Let's give it a try.

#### Fixed

Using Stack, without changing anything in my system, i can cleanly
replicate exactly the same failure Hackage is producing when trying to
build my package. I'm all sorted. The boring hours of system fixing
were avoided by simply using Stack! 😊

#### Now the Haskell part

I still have to fix a problem with dependencies that i don't
understand clearly ... that can take a boring while.

