---
title: tagged data structures, mobile technologies, open technologies
---


I am happy about the results achieved working on Crumbs. Now i enjoy
the tool way more and it's helping me a lot to balance activities
during a working day.

The next project i'm going to work on today is *Gates*. I hope to come
up with a lightweight system to store tagged information. The main use
case at the moment is storing web locations, but i can imagine many
applications, as this is a topic that i've been interested in for a
while.

In the last months i've been storing information on my file system
more often, as i work more online and use the web more. I still didn't
find a practical way to store but especially to manage tagged
information, so i hope that Gates will provide me with a basic system
and hopefully some helpful and simple tools.

I think that the problem is a complex one, so i might work on it just
for a bit, find some satisficing solutions and write some
documentation that can serve as a foundation for eventual development.

On the other hand, which kind of work could i do that can bring some
economical outcomes? Maybe learn Clojure for Android? But then React
Native would probably be a better technology for me to approach
mobile. Mobile development could be fun, for a lot of reasons. I am
also using mobile software way more now that i live as a nomad.

Maybe i could mix the two things, and write an offline mobile app to
manage tagged information. So maybe the Gates project could be built
for Android.

I have to install Android studio again. Every time i approached mobile
dev, i was faced with proprietary technologies, which are not easily
available for my system and are imposing some constraints on me. They
make me feel like i'm wasting my time.

Yes, being a mobile dev could grant me some money on the short term,
but i'm not sure that it's bringing me where i want to be. I will peek
again into this market full of capital and walled gardens eventually,
as it's really relevant for many users including myself, but i don't
want to give it priority for now, i want to give priority to things i
care more about, open technologies like those that can be used on the
web, or for backend systems, or for creative applications, or for
system engineering
